# Lego Masters (Australian TV series) season 7

The seventh season of Australian reality television series Lego Masters, titled Lego Masters Australia Grand Masters of the Galaxy, began airing on 1 June 2025. Like the previous series, four Australian teams go up against six international teams who have competed in their own countries. Hamish Blake returned as host along with Ryan "The Brickman" McNaught as judge. The ten teams battle it out to win the title of Australia's LEGO Grand Master and a prize of $100,000.

Production
In October 2024, the series was renewed for a seventh season, which saw the return of past winners and finalists vs international teams who have previously competed in their homelands. In May 2025, season seven was confirmed to premiere on 1 June 2025 and would be titled Grandmasters of the Galaxy, and the contestants also announced with international teams including six international teams from Canada, China, Finland, Sweden, USA and New Zealand.

Teams

Elimination history

Team scores

Series Details

Challenge 1
Airdate: 1 June 2025
Challenge: "Bringing the Word Together" Each of the ten teams has 12 hours to build a ball contraption that transfers a ball from one team's table to the next but reflects their creative talents, but the "dwell time" of the ball on each is important to the story telling. Brickman will score each build out of 20. If the ball does not make it to the next table, the team scores zero.
Advantage:  Playing for scores for the first three builds in order to win "The Magic Brick" which will keep the team safe from the first elimination.

Challenge 2
Airdate: 2 June 2025
Challenge: "Team Birdman" Each of the five teams (two teams combined picked by randomly combining international and Oceania teams) has eight hours to build an interesting story on an existing glider plane. The glider will be launched from a 10 m high platform, in homage to the Birdman Rally. Brickman will award a score out of 20 for the aesthetics of the build and how it looks flying. The glider that flies the furthest receives a bonus five points from Hamish. Brickman also decides that if the USA and Australian team glider (bald eagle) lands relatively intact using landing wheels, he will award the team an additional five points.
Advantage: Playing for scores for the first three builds in order to win "The Magic Brick" which will keep the team safe from the first elimination.

Challenge 3
Airdate: 3 June 2025
Challenge: "What's in Toy Store" Each of the ten teams chooses an empty toy package that has the name of a toy with packaging giving clues to the toy to be built. Team NZ, chose first, because they are at the top of the leader board with 36 points. The teams have eight hours for this build and is worth 40 points.
Advantage: Playing for scores for the first three builds in order to win "The Magic Brick" which will keep the team safe from the first elimination.

Challenge 4
Airdate: 8 June 2025
Challenge: "Is it Fake?" The first elimination gives the ten teams nine hours to attempt to replicate a real object out of Lego from a regional Chinese Restaurant set. Twenty points will be granted by Brickmaster based on difficulty and realism. Sophie Monk will attempt to pick the Lego builds from a distance, but if she cannot pick the build in 90 seconds, the team earns an additional three points.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Gabby and Owen safe from the first elimination.

Challenge 5
Airdate: 9 June 2025
Challenge: "What Lurks Beneath" The second elimination gives the nine remaining teams have nine hours to build an above and below design with a base plate fixed to the top and base of a fishtank. The story must be from an assigned historical era from a randomly and the tank will be filled with water.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Dai and Jiayuan safe from the second elimination.

Challenge 6
Airdate: 10 June 2025
Challenge: "Run the Gauntlet" The third elimination gives the eight teams nine hours to construct booby traps within a base plate world (two bases plates each of tropical island, snowy mountain, jungle and desert) for a remote control vehicle (piloted by Hamish) to navigate through. Teams were ranked on the effectiveness of their booby traps and how well they were hidden.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Vidar and Albin safe from the third elimination.

Challenge 7
Airdate: 15 June 2025
Challenge: "Caught in the Act" The fourth elimination gives the seven teams nine hours to construct a crime on a base plate of a room (lounge room, study, kitchen, greenhouse, garage, music studio and rumpus room). Each room has an item assigned that is to be stolen in a crime. Aesthetics and technical ability as well as story telling are the judging criteria. Sophie Monk is used to determine if the build is understandable without explanation.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of David and G safe from the fourth elimination.

Challenge 8
Airdate: 16 June 2025
Challenge: "Fresh Food Superheroes" The fifth elimination gives the six teams nine hours to create an action scene for a food-based superhero against an archenemy. Superhero minifigs were chosen at random.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Henry and Cade safe from the fifth elimination. This is the last build where the Magic Brick is in play. The winner is guaranteed a spot in the semi-final.

Challenge 9
Airdate: 17 June 2025
Challenge: "Movie Magic" The sixth elimination gives the five teams seven hours to build life-like models of cars that will star in a movie scene. Each team chooses at random a background to film their car against. Cars will be judged on their realism.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Trent and Alex safe from the sixth elimination. The winner of this build gets an advantage in the semi-finals.

Semi-final
Airdate: 22 June 2025
Challenge: "Harry Potter Night of Magic" The seventh elimination and semi-final gives the final four teams eleven hours to construct a build centered around a house from the Harry Potter books. The build consists of a hallway and a room reveal with an exciting suspenseful scene incorporating traits from the house. The houses were randomly assigned by a Lego Sorting Hat.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" is no longer in play, however Brickman gives the team of Henry and Cade an "advantage" of one hour of help from Sophie Monk.

Grand Finale
Airdate: 23 June 2025
Grand Finale Challenge: "Free Build" The final three teams have only 28 hours to build whatever they choose. Whoever wins most of the public vote and Brickman's will gain $100,000 and the glory of being the best in the galaxy.
Voting and Judgement: 200 members of the public, along with Brickman, will determine the ultimate winners. Brickman's vote is worth 100 votes.

Ratings
Viewership data focuses on National Reach and National Total ratings instead of the five metro centres and overnight shares.
