# Outline of Harry Potter

Harry Potter is a series of fantasy novels by J. K. Rowling.
Harry Potter related topics include:

The original books
The Harry Potter books are 7 novels about a boy who learns he is a famous wizard:

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone—published as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone in the United States
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows

Films
As of 2022, there are eleven motion picture adaptions based on the world, characters and books created by J. K. Rowling. There are eight motion picture adaptations of the Harry Potter novels by J. K. Rowling; the final novel is split into two cinematic parts. While the remaining motion picture adaptions are inspired by both the companion book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them as well has original content developed by JK Rowling. Seven of the eight screenplays were written by Steve Kloves. The fifth was penned by Michael Goldenberg. All three Fantastic Beasts films were written by JK Rowling. David Heyman has produced the franchise, which has seen four different directors. All eleven films are distributed by Warner Bros. In 2016, a spin-off of and prequel to the Harry Potter film series titled  Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them was released. A sequel to Fantastic Beasts entitled Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald was released in 2018. In April 2022 the third part Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore was released. Two more instalments of the Fantastic Beasts series are tentatively  planned for release.

Wizarding World - The shared universe of the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts film series
Harry Potter (film series)
List of Harry Potter cast members
Directed by Chris Columbus:
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)  (known in the United States as "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone")
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)
Directed by Alfonso Cuarón:
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film)
Directed by Mike Newell:
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
Directed by David Yates:
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2
Production of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
 Fantastic Beasts (film series)
List of Fantastic Beasts cast members
List of Fantastic Beasts characters
Directed by David Yates:
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore

Music
Music of the Harry Potter films
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince  soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 soundtrack
Music of the Fantastic Beasts films
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them soundtrack
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald soundtrack

Other works
Wizarding World Digital
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts
Secondary books
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them
Quidditch Through the Ages
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
Short stories
Prequel
Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky Poltergeists
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies

Video games
Harry Potter video games

Universe details
Harry Potter universe
List of Harry Potter characters

Character groups
List of supporting Harry Potter characters
Order of the Phoenix (fictional organisation)
Death Eaters
Dumbledore's Army
Hogwarts staff
Places in Harry Potter
Beauxbatons
Diagon Alley
Hogwarts
Magic in Harry Potter
Magical creatures in Harry Potter
Magical objects in Harry Potter
Ministry of Magic
Muggle
Quidditch

Attractions
Harry Potter in amusement parks
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter
Orlando
Japan
Hollywood
Dragon Challenge
Flight of the Hippogriff
Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure
Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts
Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey
Hogwarts Express
Harry Potter Movie Magic Experience
Exhibitions
Harry Potter: The Exhibition
Harry Potter: A History of Magic
Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter
Warner Bros. Studio Tour

Fandom
Harry Potter fandom
A Celebration of Harry Potter
Harry Potter Alliance
Mischief Management
Websites
Harry Potter Fan Zone
The Harry Potter Lexicon
HPANA
The Leaky Cauldron (website)
PotterCast
MuggleNet
Fan fiction
All the Young Dudes
Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality
Hogwarts School of Prayer and Miracles
My Immortal
Fan films
Hermione Granger and the Quarter Life Crisis
Severus Snape and the Marauders
Voldemort: Origins of the Heir
Parodies
Potter Puppet Pals
Puffs, or Seven Increasingly Eventful Years at a Certain School of Magic and Magic
Skulduggery Pleasant: Phase Two
A Very Potter Musical
A Very Potter Musical (album)
A Very Potter Sequel
EP
A Very Potter Senior Year
Wizard People, Dear Reader
Wizard rock
Wrockstock
Draco and the Malfoys
Harry and the Potters
Harry and the Potters (album)
Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock!
Harry and the Potters and the Power of Love
Lumos (album)
Harry and the Potters discography
Ministry of Magic (band)
Myles Kane

Analysis
Harry Potter influences and analogues
Harry Potter in translation
Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series
Harry Potter in Calcutta
Hari Puttar: A Comedy of Terrors
Tanya Grotter
Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. v. RDR Books
Politics of Harry Potter
Religious debates over the Harry Potter series
Harry, A History
Harry Potter and the Sacred Text
The Magical Worlds of Harry Potter
Pollomuhku ja Posityyhtynen
Potterless

Other
Portkey Games
Lego Harry Potter
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
List of organisms named after the Harry Potter series
