WHITE NIGHTS
  AND OTHER STORIES

  THE NOVELS OF
  FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY
  VOLUME X

  WHITE NIGHTS

  AND OTHER STORIES BY
  FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY

  FROM THE RUSSIAN BY
  CONSTANCE GARNETT

  NEW YORK
  THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
  1918

  _Printed in Great Britain_

         CONTENTS

                                            PAGE

  WHITE NIGHTS                                1

  NOTES FROM UNDERGROUND--
    PART I. UNDERGROUND                      50
    PART II. À PROPOS OF THE WET SNOW        81

  A FAINT HEART                             156

  A CHRISTMAS TREE AND A WEDDING            200

  POLZUNKOV                                 208

  A LITTLE HERO                             223

  MR. PROHARTCHIN                           258

WHITE NIGHTS

A SENTIMENTAL STORY FROM THE DIARY OF A DREAMER

FIRST NIGHT

It was a wonderful night, such a night as is only possible when we are
young, dear reader. The sky was so starry, so bright that, looking at
it, one could not help asking oneself whether ill-humoured and
capricious people could live under such a sky. That is a youthful
question too, dear reader, very youthful, but may the Lord put it more
frequently into your heart!... Speaking of capricious and ill-humoured
people, I cannot help recalling my moral condition all that day. From
early morning I had been oppressed by a strange despondency. It suddenly
seemed to me that I was lonely, that every one was forsaking me and
going away from me. Of course, any one is entitled to ask who "every
one" was. For though I had been living almost eight years in Petersburg
I had hardly an acquaintance. But what did I want with acquaintances? I
was acquainted with all Petersburg as it was; that was why I felt as
though they were all deserting me when all Petersburg packed up and went
to its summer villa. I felt afraid of being left alone, and for three
whole days I wandered about the town in profound dejection, not knowing
what to do with myself. Whether I walked in the Nevsky, went to the
Gardens or sauntered on the embankment, there was not one face of those
I had been accustomed to meet at the same time and place all the year.
They, of course, do not know me, but I know them. I know them
intimately, I have almost made a study of their faces, and am delighted
when they are gay, and downcast when they are under a cloud. I have
almost struck up a friendship with one old man whom I meet every blessed
day, at the same hour in Fontanka. Such a grave, pensive countenance; he
is always whispering to himself and brandishing his left arm, while in
his right hand he holds a long gnarled stick with a gold knob. He even
notices me and takes a warm interest in me. If I happen not to be at a
certain time in the same spot in Fontanka, I am certain he feels
disappointed. That is how it is that we almost bow to each other,
especially when we are both in good humour. The other day, when we had
not seen each other for two days and met on the third, we were actually
touching our hats, but, realizing in time, dropped our hands and passed
each other with a look of interest.

I know the houses too. As I walk along they seem to run forward in the
streets to look out at me from every window, and almost to say:
"Good-morning! How do you do? I am quite well, thank God, and I am to
have a new storey in May," or, "How are you? I am being redecorated
to-morrow;" or, "I was almost burnt down and had such a fright," and so
on. I have my favourites among them, some are dear friends; one of them
intends to be treated by the architect this summer. I shall go every day
on purpose to see that the operation is not a failure. God forbid! But I
shall never forget an incident with a very pretty little house of a
light pink colour. It was such a charming little brick house, it looked
so hospitably at me, and so proudly at its ungainly neighbours, that my
heart rejoiced whenever I happened to pass it. Suddenly last week I
walked along the street, and when I looked at my friend I heard a
plaintive, "They are painting me yellow!" The villains! The barbarians!
They had spared nothing, neither columns, nor cornices, and my poor
little friend was as yellow as a canary. It almost made me bilious. And
to this day I have not had the courage to visit my poor disfigured
friend, painted the colour of the Celestial Empire.

So now you understand, reader, in what sense I am acquainted with all
Petersburg.

I have mentioned already that I had felt worried for three whole days
before I guessed the cause of my uneasiness. And I felt ill at ease in
the street--this one had gone and that one had gone, and what had become
of the other?--and at home I did not feel like myself either. For two
evenings I was puzzling my brains to think what was amiss in my corner;
why I felt so uncomfortable in it. And in perplexity I scanned my grimy
green walls, my ceiling covered with a spider's web, the growth of which
Matrona has so successfully encouraged. I looked over all my furniture,
examined every chair, wondering whether the trouble lay there (for if
one chair is not standing in the same position as it stood the day
before, I am not myself). I looked at the window, but it was all in vain
... I was not a bit the better for it! I even bethought me to send for
Matrona, and was giving her some fatherly admonitions in regard to the
spider's web and sluttishness in general; but she simply stared at me in
amazement and went away without saying a word, so that the spider's web
is comfortably hanging in its place to this day. I only at last this
morning realized what was wrong. Aie! Why, they are giving me the slip
and making off to their summer villas! Forgive the triviality of the
expression, but I am in no mood for fine language ... for everything
that had been in Petersburg had gone or was going away for the holidays;
for every respectable gentleman of dignified appearance who took a cab
was at once transformed, in my eyes, into a respectable head of a
household who after his daily duties were over, was making his way to
the bosom of his family, to the summer villa; for all the passers-by had
now quite a peculiar air which seemed to say to every one they met: "We
are only here for the moment, gentlemen, and in another two hours we
shall be going off to the summer villa." If a window opened after
delicate fingers, white as snow, had tapped upon the pane, and the head
of a pretty girl was thrust out, calling to a street-seller with pots of
flowers--at once on the spot I fancied that those flowers were being
bought not simply in order to enjoy the flowers and the spring in stuffy
town lodgings, but because they would all be very soon moving into the
country and could take the flowers with them. What is more, I made such
progress in my new peculiar sort of investigation that I could
distinguish correctly from the mere air of each in what summer villa he
was living. The inhabitants of Kamenny and Aptekarsky Islands or of the
Peterhof Road were marked by the studied elegance of their manner, their
fashionable summer suits, and the fine carriages in which they drove to
town. Visitors to Pargolovo and places further away impressed one at
first sight by their reasonable and dignified air; the tripper to
Krestovsky Island could be recognized by his look of irrepressible
gaiety. If I chanced to meet a long procession of waggoners walking
lazily with the reins in their hands beside waggons loaded with regular
mountains of furniture, tables, chairs, ottomans and sofas and domestic
utensils of all sorts, frequently with a decrepit cook sitting on the
top of it all, guarding her master's property as though it were the
apple of her eye; or if I saw boats heavily loaded with household goods
crawling along the Neva or Fontanka to the Black River or the
Islands--the waggons and the boats were multiplied tenfold, a
hundredfold, in my eyes. I fancied that everything was astir and moving,
everything was going in regular caravans to the summer villas. It seemed
as though Petersburg threatened to become a wilderness, so that at last
I felt ashamed, mortified and sad that I had nowhere to go for the
holidays and no reason to go away. I was ready to go away with every
waggon, to drive off with every gentleman of respectable appearance who
took a cab; but no one--absolutely no one--invited me; it seemed they
had forgotten me, as though really I were a stranger to them!

I took long walks, succeeding, as I usually did, in quite forgetting
where I was, when I suddenly found myself at the city gates. Instantly I
felt lighthearted, and I passed the barrier and walked between
cultivated fields and meadows, unconscious of fatigue, and feeling only
all over as though a burden were falling off my soul. All the passers-by
gave me such friendly looks that they seemed almost greeting me, they
all seemed so pleased at something. They were all smoking cigars, every
one of them. And I felt pleased as I never had before. It was as though
I had suddenly found myself in Italy--so strong was the effect of nature
upon a half-sick townsman like me, almost stifling between city walls.

There is something inexpressibly touching in nature round Petersburg,
when at the approach of spring she puts forth all her might, all the
powers bestowed on her by Heaven, when she breaks into leaf, decks
herself out and spangles herself with flowers.... Somehow I cannot help
being reminded of a frail, consumptive girl, at whom one sometimes looks
with compassion, sometimes with sympathetic love, whom sometimes one
simply does not notice; though suddenly in one instant she becomes, as
though by chance, inexplicably lovely and exquisite, and, impressed and
intoxicated, one cannot help asking oneself what power made those sad,
pensive eyes flash with such fire? What summoned the blood to those
pale, wan cheeks? What bathed with passion those soft features? What set
that bosom heaving? What so suddenly called strength, life and beauty
into the poor girl's face, making it gleam with such a smile, kindle
with such bright, sparkling laughter? You look round, you seek for some
one, you conjecture.... But the moment passes, and next day you meet,
maybe, the same pensive and preoccupied look as before, the same pale
face, the same meek and timid movements, and even signs of remorse,
traces of a mortal anguish and regret for the fleeting distraction....
And you grieve that the momentary beauty has faded so soon never to
return, that it flashed upon you so treacherously, so vainly, grieve
because you had not even time to love her....

And yet my night was better than my day! This was how it happened.

I came back to the town very late, and it had struck ten as I was going
towards my lodgings. My way lay along the canal embankment, where at
that hour you never meet a soul. It is true that I live in a very remote
part of the town. I walked along singing, for when I am happy I am
always humming to myself like every happy man who has no friend or
acquaintance with whom to share his joy. Suddenly I had a most
unexpected adventure.

Leaning on the canal railing stood a woman with her elbows on the rail,
she was apparently looking with great attention at the muddy water of
the canal. She was wearing a very charming yellow hat and a jaunty
little black mantle. "She's a girl, and I am sure she is dark," I
thought. She did not seem to hear my footsteps, and did not even stir
when I passed by with bated breath and loudly throbbing heart.

"Strange," I thought; "she must be deeply absorbed in something," and
all at once I stopped as though petrified. I heard a muffled sob. Yes! I
was not mistaken, the girl was crying, and a minute later I heard sob
after sob. Good Heavens! My heart sank. And timid as I was with women,
yet this was such a moment!... I turned, took a step towards her, and
should certainly have pronounced the word "Madam!" if I had not known
that that exclamation has been uttered a thousand times in every Russian
society novel. It was only that reflection stopped me. But while I was
seeking for a word, the girl came to herself, looked round, started,
cast down her eyes and slipped by me along the embankment. I at once
followed her; but she, divining this, left the embankment, crossed the
road and walked along the pavement. I dared not cross the street after
her. My heart was fluttering like a captured bird. All at once a chance
came to my aid.

Along the same side of the pavement there suddenly came into sight, not
far from the girl, a gentleman in evening dress, of dignified years,
though by no means of dignified carriage; he was staggering and
cautiously leaning against the wall. The girl flew straight as an arrow,
with the timid haste one sees in all girls who do not want any one to
volunteer to accompany them home at night, and no doubt the staggering
gentleman would not have pursued her, if my good luck had not prompted
him.

Suddenly, without a word to any one, the gentleman set off and flew full
speed in pursuit of my unknown lady. She was racing like the wind, but
the staggering gentleman was overtaking--overtook her. The girl uttered
a shriek, and ... I bless my luck for the excellent knotted stick, which
happened on that occasion to be in my right hand. In a flash I was on
the other side of the street; in a flash the obtrusive gentleman had
taken in the position, had grasped the irresistible argument, fallen
back without a word, and only when we were very far away protested
against my action in rather vigorous language. But his words hardly
reached us.

"Give me your arm," I said to the girl. "And he won't dare to annoy us
further."

She took my arm without a word, still trembling with excitement and
terror. Oh, obtrusive gentleman! How I blessed you at that moment! I
stole a glance at her, she was very charming and dark--I had guessed
right.

On her black eyelashes there still glistened a tear--from her recent
terror or her former grief--I don't know. But there was already a gleam
of a smile on her lips. She too stole a glance at me, faintly blushed
and looked down.

"There, you see; why did you drive me away? If I had been here, nothing
would have happened...."

"But I did not know you; I thought that you too...."

"Why, do you know me now?"

"A little! Here, for instance, why are you trembling?"

"Oh, you are right at the first guess!" I answered, delighted that my
girl had intelligence; that is never out of place in company with
beauty. "Yes, from the first glance you have guessed the sort of man you
have to do with. Precisely; I am shy with women, I am agitated, I don't
deny it, as much so as you were a minute ago when that gentleman alarmed
you. I am in some alarm now. It's like a dream, and I never guessed even
in my sleep that I should ever talk with any woman."

"What? Really?..."

"Yes; if my arm trembles, it is because it has never been held by a
pretty little hand like yours. I am a complete stranger to women; that
is, I have never been used to them. You see, I am alone.... I don't even
know how to talk to them. Here, I don't know now whether I have not said
something silly to you! Tell me frankly; I assure you beforehand that I
am not quick to take offence?..."

"No, nothing, nothing, quite the contrary. And if you insist on my
speaking frankly, I will tell you that women like such timidity; and if
you want to know more, I like it too, and I won't drive you away till I
get home."

"You will make me," I said, breathless with delight, "lose my timidity,
and then farewell to all my chances...."

"Chances! What chances--of what? That's not so nice."

"I beg your pardon, I am sorry, it was a slip of the tongue; but how can
you expect one at such a moment to have no desire...."

"To be liked, eh?"

"Well, yes; but do, for goodness' sake, be kind. Think what I am! Here,
I am twenty-six and I have never seen any one. How can I speak well,
tactfully, and to the point? It will seem better to you when I have told
you everything openly.... I don't know how to be silent when my heart is
speaking. Well, never mind.... Believe me, not one woman, never, never!
No acquaintance of any sort! And I do nothing but dream every day that
at last I shall meet some one. Oh, if only you knew how often I have
been in love in that way...."

"How? With whom?..."

"Why, with no one, with an ideal, with the one I dream of in my sleep. I
make up regular romances in my dreams. Ah, you don't know me! It's true,
of course, I have met two or three women, but what sort of women were
they? They were all landladies, that.... But I shall make you laugh if I
tell you that I have several times thought of speaking, just simply
speaking, to some aristocratic lady in the street, when she is alone, I
need hardly say; speaking to her, of course, timidly, respectfully,
passionately; telling her that I am perishing in solitude, begging her
not to send me away; saying that I have no chance of making the
acquaintance of any woman; impressing upon her that it is a positive
duty for a woman not to repulse so timid a prayer from such a luckless
man as me. That, in fact, all I ask is, that she should say two or three
sisterly words with sympathy, should not repulse me at first sight;
should take me on trust and listen to what I say; should laugh at me if
she likes, encourage me, say two words to me, only two words, even
though we never meet again afterwards!... But you are laughing; however,
that is why I am telling you...."

"Don't be vexed; I am only laughing at your being your own enemy, and if
you had tried you would have succeeded, perhaps, even though it had been
in the street; the simpler the better.... No kind-hearted woman, unless
she were stupid or, still more, vexed about something at the moment,
could bring herself to send you away without those two words which you
ask for so timidly.... But what am I saying? Of course she would take
you for a madman. I was judging by myself; I know a good deal about
other people's lives."

"Oh, thank you," I cried; "you don't know what you have done for me
now!"

"I am glad! I am glad! But tell me how did you find out that I was the
sort of woman with whom ... well, whom you think worthy ... of attention
and friendship ... in fact, not a landlady as you say? What made you
decide to come up to me?"

"What made me?... But you were alone; that gentleman was too insolent;
it's night. You must admit that it was a duty...."

"No, no; I mean before, on the other side--you know you meant to come up
to me."

"On the other side? Really I don't know how to answer; I am afraid
to.... Do you know I have been happy to-day? I walked along singing; I
went out into the country; I have never had such happy moments. You ...
perhaps it was my fancy.... Forgive me for referring to it; I fancied
you were crying, and I ... could not bear to hear it ... it made my
heart ache.... Oh, my goodness! Surely I might be troubled about you?
Surely there was no harm in feeling brotherly compassion for you.... I
beg your pardon, I said compassion.... Well, in short, surely you would
not be offended at my involuntary impulse to go up to you?..."

"Stop, that's enough, don't talk of it," said the girl, looking down,
and pressing my hand. "It's my fault for having spoken of it; but I am
glad I was not mistaken in you.... But here I am home; I must go down
this turning, it's two steps from here.... Good-bye, thank you!..."

"Surely ... surely you don't mean ... that we shall never see each other
again?... Surely this is not to be the end?"

"You see," said the girl, laughing, "at first you only wanted two words,
and now.... However, I won't say anything ... perhaps we shall meet...."

"I shall come here to-morrow," I said. "Oh, forgive me, I am already
making demands...."

"Yes, you are not very patient ... you are almost insisting."

"Listen, listen!" I interrupted her. "Forgive me if I tell you something
else.... I tell you what, I can't help coming here to-morrow, I am a
dreamer; I have so little real life that I look upon such moments as
this now, as so rare, that I cannot help going over such moments again
in my dreams. I shall be dreaming of you all night, a whole week, a
whole year. I shall certainly come here to-morrow, just here to this
place, just at the same hour, and I shall be happy remembering to-day.
This place is dear to me already. I have already two or three such
places in Petersburg. I once shed tears over memories ... like you....
Who knows, perhaps you were weeping ten minutes ago over some memory....
But, forgive me, I have forgotten myself again; perhaps you have once
been particularly happy here...."

"Very good," said the girl, "perhaps I will come here to-morrow, too, at
ten o'clock. I see that I can't forbid you.... The fact is, I have to be
here; don't imagine that I am making an appointment with you; I tell you
beforehand that I have to be here on my own account. But ... well, I
tell you straight out, I don't mind if you do come. To begin with,
something unpleasant might happen as it did to-day, but never mind
that.... In short, I should simply like to see you ... to say two words
to you. Only, mind, you must not think the worse of me now! Don't think
I make appointments so lightly.... I shouldn't make it except that....
But let that be my secret! Only a compact beforehand...."

"A compact! Speak, tell me, tell me all beforehand; I agree to anything,
I am ready for anything," I cried delighted. "I answer for myself, I
will be obedient, respectful ... you know me...."

"It's just because I do know you that I ask you to come to-morrow," said
the girl, laughing. "I know you perfectly. But mind you will come on the
condition, in the first place (only be good, do what I ask--you see, I
speak frankly), you won't fall in love with me.... That's impossible, I
assure you. I am ready for friendship; here's my hand.... But you
mustn't fall in love with me, I beg you!"

"I swear," I cried, gripping her hand....

"Hush, don't swear, I know you are ready to flare up like gunpowder.
Don't think ill of me for saying so. If only you knew.... I, too, have
no one to whom I can say a word, whose advice I can ask. Of course, one
does not look for an adviser in the street; but you are an exception. I
know you as though we had been friends for twenty years.... You won't
deceive me, will you?..."

"You will see ... the only thing is, I don't know how I am going to
survive the next twenty-four hours."

"Sleep soundly. Good-night, and remember that I have trusted you
already. But you exclaimed so nicely just now, 'Surely one can't be held
responsible for every feeling, even for brotherly sympathy!' Do you
know, that was so nicely said, that the idea struck me at once, that I
might confide in you?"

"For God's sake do; but about what? What is it?"

"Wait till to-morrow. Meanwhile, let that be a secret. So much the
better for you; it will give it a faint flavour of romance. Perhaps I
will tell you to-morrow, and perhaps not.... I will talk to you a little
more beforehand; we will get to know each other better...."

"Oh yes, I will tell you all about myself to-morrow! But what has
happened? It is as though a miracle had befallen me.... My God, where am
I? Come, tell me aren't you glad that you were not angry and did not
drive me away at the first moment, as any other woman would have done?
In two minutes you have made me happy for ever. Yes, happy; who knows,
perhaps, you have reconciled me with myself, solved my doubts!...
Perhaps such moments come upon me.... But there I will tell you all
about it to-morrow, you shall know everything, everything...."

"Very well, I consent; you shall begin...."

"Agreed."

"Good-bye till to-morrow!"

"Till to-morrow!"

And we parted. I walked about all night; I could not make up my mind to
go home. I was so happy.... To-morrow!

SECOND NIGHT

"Well, so you have survived!" she said, pressing both my hands.

"I've been here for the last two hours; you don't know what a state I
have been in all day."

"I know, I know. But to business. Do you know why I have come? Not to
talk nonsense, as I did yesterday. I tell you what, we must behave more
sensibly in future. I thought a great deal about it last night."

"In what way--in what must we be more sensible? I am ready for my part;
but, really, nothing more sensible has happened to me in my life than
this, now."

"Really? In the first place, I beg you not to squeeze my hands so;
secondly, I must tell you that I spent a long time thinking about you
and feeling doubtful to-day."

"And how did it end?"

"How did it end? The upshot of it is that we must begin all over again,
because the conclusion I reached to-day was that I don't know you at
all; that I behaved like a baby last night, like a little girl; and, of
course, the fact of it is, that it's my soft heart that is to
blame--that is, I sang my own praises, as one always does in the end
when one analyses one's conduct. And therefore to correct my mistake,
I've made up my mind to find out all about you minutely. But as I have
no one from whom I can find out anything, you must tell me everything
fully yourself. Well, what sort of man are you? Come, make
haste--begin--tell me your whole history."

"My history!" I cried in alarm. "My history! But who has told you I have
a history? I have no history...."

"Then how have you lived, if you have no history?" she interrupted,
laughing.

"Absolutely without any history! I have lived, as they say, keeping
myself to myself, that is, utterly alone--alone, entirely alone. Do you
know what it means to be alone?"

"But how alone? Do you mean you never saw any one?"

"Oh no, I see people, of course; but still I am alone."

"Why, do you never talk to any one?"

"Strictly speaking, with no one."

"Who are you then? Explain yourself! Stay, I guess: most likely, like me
you have a grandmother. She is blind and will never let me go anywhere,
so that I have almost forgotten how to talk; and when I played some
pranks two years ago, and she saw there was no holding me in, she called
me up and pinned my dress to hers, and ever since we sit like that for
days together; she knits a stocking, though she's blind, and I sit
beside her, sew or read aloud to her--it's such a queer habit, here for
two years I've been pinned to her...."

"Good Heavens! what misery! But no, I haven't a grandmother like that."

"Well, if you haven't why do you sit at home?..."

"Listen, do you want to know the sort of man I am?"

"Yes, yes!"

"In the strict sense of the word?"

"In the very strictest sense of the word."

"Very well, I am a type!"

"Type, type! What sort of type?" cried the girl, laughing, as though she
had not had a chance of laughing for a whole year. "Yes, it's very
amusing talking to you. Look, here's a seat, let us sit down. No one is
passing here, no one will hear us, and--begin your history. For it's no
good your telling me, I know you have a history; only you are concealing
it. To begin with, what is a type?"

"A type? A type is an original, it's an absurd person!" I said, infected
by her childish laughter. "It's a character. Listen; do you know what is
meant by a dreamer?"

"A dreamer! Indeed I should think I do know. I am a dreamer myself.
Sometimes, as I sit by grandmother, all sorts of things come into my
head. Why, when one begins dreaming one lets one's fancy run away with
one--why, I marry a Chinese Prince!... Though sometimes it is a good
thing to dream! But, goodness knows! Especially when one has something
to think of apart from dreams," added the girl, this time rather
seriously.

"Excellent! If you have been married to a Chinese Emperor, you will
quite understand me. Come, listen.... But one minute, I don't know your
name yet."

"At last! You have been in no hurry to think of it!"

"Oh, my goodness! It never entered my head, I felt quite happy as it
was...."

"My name is Nastenka."

"Nastenka! And nothing else?"

"Nothing else! Why, is not that enough for you, you insatiable person?"

"Not enough? On the contrary, it's a great deal, a very great deal,
Nastenka; you kind girl, if you are Nastenka for me from the first."

"Quite so! Well?"

"Well, listen, Nastenka, now for this absurd history."

I sat down beside her, assumed a pedantically serious attitude, and
began as though reading from a manuscript:--

"There are, Nastenka, though you may not know it, strange nooks in
Petersburg. It seems as though the same sun as shines for all Petersburg
people does not peep into those spots, but some other different new one,
bespoken expressly for those nooks, and it throws a different light on
everything. In these corners, dear Nastenka, quite a different life is
lived, quite unlike the life that is surging round us, but such as
perhaps exists in some unknown realm, not among us in our serious,
over-serious, time. Well, that life is a mixture of something purely
fantastic, fervently ideal, with something (alas! Nastenka) dingily
prosaic and ordinary, not to say incredibly vulgar."

"Foo! Good Heavens! What a preface! What do I hear?"

"Listen, Nastenka. (It seems to me I shall never be tired of calling you
Nastenka.) Let me tell you that in these corners live strange
people--dreamers. The dreamer--if you want an exact definition--is not a
human being, but a creature of an intermediate sort. For the most part
he settles in some inaccessible corner, as though hiding from the light
of day; once he slips into his corner, he grows to it like a snail, or,
anyway, he is in that respect very much like that remarkable creature,
which is an animal and a house both at once, and is called a tortoise.
Why do you suppose he is so fond of his four walls, which are invariably
painted green, grimy, dismal and reeking unpardonably of tobacco smoke?
Why is it that when this absurd gentleman is visited by one of his few
acquaintances (and he ends by getting rid of all his friends), why does
this absurd person meet him with such embarrassment, changing
countenance and overcome with confusion, as though he had only just
committed some crime within his four walls; as though he had been
forging counterfeit notes, or as though he were writing verses to be
sent to a journal with an anonymous letter, in which he states that the
real poet is dead, and that his friend thinks it his sacred duty to
publish his things? Why, tell me, Nastenka, why is it conversation is
not easy between the two friends? Why is there no laughter? Why does no
lively word fly from the tongue of the perplexed newcomer, who at other
times may be very fond of laughter, lively words, conversation about the
fair sex, and other cheerful subjects? And why does this friend,
probably a new friend and on his first visit--for there will hardly be a
second, and the friend will never come again--why is the friend himself
so confused, so tongue-tied, in spite of his wit (if he has any), as he
looks at the downcast face of his host, who in his turn becomes utterly
helpless and at his wits' end after gigantic but fruitless efforts to
smooth things over and enliven the conversation, to show his knowledge
of polite society, to talk, too, of the fair sex, and by such humble
endeavour, to please the poor man, who like a fish out of water has
mistakenly come to visit him? Why does the gentleman, all at once
remembering some very necessary business which never existed, suddenly
seize his hat and hurriedly make off, snatching away his hand from the
warm grip of his host, who was trying his utmost to show his regret and
retrieve the lost position? Why does the friend chuckle as he goes out
of the door, and swear never to come and see this queer creature again,
though the queer creature is really a very good fellow, and at the same
time he cannot refuse his imagination the little diversion of comparing
the queer fellow's countenance during their conversation with the
expression of an unhappy kitten treacherously captured, roughly handled,
frightened and subjected to all sorts of indignities by children, till,
utterly crestfallen, it hides away from them under a chair in the dark,
and there must needs at its leisure bristle up, spit, and wash its
insulted face with both paws, and long afterwards look angrily at life
and nature, and even at the bits saved from the master's dinner for it
by the sympathetic housekeeper?"

"Listen," interrupted Nastenka, who had listened to me all the time in
amazement, opening her eyes and her little mouth. "Listen; I don't know
in the least why it happened and why you ask me such absurd questions;
all I know is, that this adventure must have happened word for word to
you."

"Doubtless," I answered, with the gravest face.

"Well, since there is no doubt about it, go on," said Nastenka, "because
I want very much to know how it will end."

"You want to know, Nastenka, what our hero, that is I--for the hero of
the whole business was my humble self--did in his corner? You want to
know why I lost my head and was upset for the whole day by the
unexpected visit of a friend? You want to know why I was so startled,
why I blushed when the door of my room was opened, why I was not able to
entertain my visitor, and why I was crushed under the weight of my own
hospitality?"

"Why, yes, yes," answered Nastenka, "that's the point. Listen. You
describe it all splendidly, but couldn't you perhaps describe it a
little less splendidly? You talk as though you were reading it out of a
book."

"Nastenka," I answered in a stern and dignified voice, hardly able to
keep from laughing, "dear Nastenka, I know I describe splendidly, but,
excuse me, I don't know how else to do it. At this moment, dear
Nastenka, at this moment I am like the spirit of King Solomon when,
after lying a thousand years under seven seals in his urn, those seven
seals were at last taken off. At this moment, Nastenka, when we have met
at last after such a long separation--for I have known you for ages,
Nastenka, because I have been looking for some one for ages, and that is
a sign that it was you I was looking for, and it was ordained that we
should meet now--at this moment a thousand valves have opened in my
head, and I must let myself flow in a river of words, or I shall choke.
And so I beg you not to interrupt me, Nastenka, but listen humbly and
obediently, or I will be silent."

"No, no, no! Not at all. Go on! I won't say a word!"

"I will continue. There is, my friend Nastenka, one hour in my day which
I like extremely. That is the hour when almost all business, work and
duties are over, and every one is hurrying home to dinner, to lie down,
to rest, and on the way all are cogitating on other more cheerful
subjects relating to their evenings, their nights, and all the rest of
their free time. At that hour our hero--for allow me, Nastenka, to tell
my story in the third person, for one feels awfully ashamed to tell it
in the first person--and so at that hour our hero, who had his work too,
was pacing along after the others. But a strange feeling of pleasure set
his pale, rather crumpled-looking face working. He looked not with
indifference on the evening glow which was slowly fading on the cold
Petersburg sky. When I say he looked, I am lying: he did not look at it,
but saw it as it were without realizing, as though tired or preoccupied
with some other more interesting subject, so that he could scarcely
spare a glance for anything about him. He was pleased because till next
day he was released from business irksome to him, and happy as a
schoolboy let out from the class-room to his games and mischief. Take a
look at him, Nastenka; you will see at once that joyful emotion has
already had an effect on his weak nerves and morbidly excited fancy. You
see he is thinking of something.... Of dinner, do you imagine? Of the
evening? What is he looking at like that? Is it at that gentleman of
dignified appearance who is bowing so picturesquely to the lady who
rolls by in a carriage drawn by prancing horses? No, Nastenka; what are
all those trivialities to him now! He is rich now with his _own
individual_ life; he has suddenly become rich, and it is not for
nothing that the fading sunset sheds its farewell gleams so gaily before
him, and calls forth a swarm of impressions from his warmed heart. Now
he hardly notices the road, on which the tiniest details at other times
would strike him. Now 'the Goddess of Fancy' (if you have read
Zhukovsky, dear Nastenka) has already with fantastic hand spun her
golden warp and begun weaving upon it patterns of marvellous magic
life--and who knows, maybe, her fantastic hand has borne him to the
seventh crystal heaven far from the excellent granite pavement on which
he was walking his way? Try stopping him now, ask him suddenly where he
is standing now, through what streets he is going--he will, probably
remember nothing, neither where he is going nor where he is standing
now, and flushing with vexation he will certainly tell some lie to save
appearances. That is why he starts, almost cries out, and looks round
with horror when a respectable old lady stops him politely in the middle
of the pavement and asks her way. Frowning with vexation he strides on,
scarcely noticing that more than one passer-by smiles and turns round to
look after him, and that a little girl, moving out of his way in alarm,
laughs aloud, gazing open-eyed at his broad meditative smile and
gesticulations. But fancy catches up in its playful flight the old
woman, the curious passers-by, and the laughing child, and the peasants
spending their nights in their barges on Fontanka (our hero, let us
suppose, is walking along the canal-side at that moment), and
capriciously weaves every one and everything into the canvas like a fly
in a spider's web. And it is only after the queer fellow has returned to
his comfortable den with fresh stores for his mind to work on, has sat
down and finished his dinner, that he comes to himself, when Matrona who
waits upon him--always thoughtful and depressed--clears the table and
gives him his pipe; he comes to himself then and recalls with surprise
that he has dined, though he has absolutely no notion how it has
happened. It has grown dark in the room; his soul is sad and empty; the
whole kingdom of fancies drops to pieces about him, drops to pieces
without a trace, without a sound, floats away like a dream, and he
cannot himself remember what he was dreaming. But a vague sensation
faintly stirs his heart and sets it aching, some new desire temptingly
tickles and excites his fancy, and imperceptibly evokes a swarm of fresh
phantoms. Stillness reigns in the little room; imagination is fostered
by solitude and idleness; it is faintly smouldering, faintly simmering,
like the water with which old Matrona is making her coffee as she moves
quietly about in the kitchen close by. Now it breaks out spasmodically;
and the book, picked up aimlessly and at random, drops from my dreamer's
hand before he has reached the third page. His imagination is again
stirred and at work, and again a new world, a new fascinating life opens
vistas before him. A fresh dream--fresh happiness! A fresh rush of
delicate, voluptuous poison! What is real life to him! To his corrupted
eyes we live, you and I, Nastenka, so torpidly, slowly, insipidly; in
his eyes we are all so dissatisfied with our fate, so exhausted by our
life! And, truly, see how at first sight everything is cold, morose, as
though ill-humoured among us.... Poor things! thinks our dreamer. And it
is no wonder that he thinks it! Look at these magic phantasms, which so
enchantingly, so whimsically, so carelessly and freely group before him
in such a magic, animated picture, in which the most prominent figure in
the foreground is of course himself, our dreamer, in his precious
person. See what varied adventures, what an endless swarm of ecstatic
dreams. You ask, perhaps, what he is dreaming of. Why ask that?--why, of
everything ... of the lot of the poet, first unrecognized, then crowned
with laurels; of friendship with Hoffmann, St. Bartholomew's Night, of
Diana Vernon, of playing the hero at the taking of Kazan by Ivan
Vassilyevitch, of Clara Mowbray, of Effie Deans, of the council of the
prelates and Huss before them, of the rising of the dead in 'Robert the
Devil' (do you remember the music, it smells of the churchyard!), of
Minna and Brenda, of the battle of Berezina, of the reading of a poem at
Countess V. D.'s, of Danton, of Cleopatra _ei suoi amanti_, of a
little house in Kolomna, of a little home of one's own and beside one a
dear creature who listens to one on a winter's evening, opening her
little mouth and eyes as you are listening to me now, my angel.... No,
Nastenka, what is there, what is there for him, voluptuous sluggard, in
this life, for which you and I have such a longing? He thinks that this
is a poor pitiful life, not foreseeing that for him too, maybe, sometime
the mournful hour may strike, when for one day of that pitiful life he
would give all his years of phantasy, and would give them not only for
joy and for happiness, but without caring to make distinctions in that
hour of sadness, remorse and unchecked grief. But so far that
threatening has not arrived--he desires nothing, because he is superior
to all desire, because he has everything, because he is satiated,
because he is the artist of his own life, and creates it for himself
every hour to suit his latest whim. And you know this fantastic world of
fairyland is so easily, so naturally created! As though it were not a
delusion! Indeed, he is ready to believe at some moments that all this
life is not suggested by feeling, is not mirage, not a delusion of the
imagination, but that it is concrete, real, substantial! Why is it,
Nastenka, why is it at such moments one holds one's breath? Why, by what
sorcery, through what incomprehensible caprice, is the pulse quickened,
does a tear start from the dreamer's eye, while his pale moist cheeks
glow, while his whole being is suffused with an inexpressible sense of
consolation? Why is it that whole sleepless nights pass like a flash in
inexhaustible gladness and happiness, and when the dawn gleams rosy at
the window and daybreak floods the gloomy room with uncertain, fantastic
light, as in Petersburg, our dreamer, worn out and exhausted, flings
himself on his bed and drops asleep with thrills of delight in his
morbidly overwrought spirit, and with a weary sweet ache in his heart?
Yes, Nastenka, one deceives oneself and unconsciously believes that real
true passion is stirring one's soul; one unconsciously believes that
there is something living, tangible in one's immaterial dreams! And is
it delusion? Here love, for instance, is bound up with all its
fathomless joy, all its torturing agonies in his bosom.... Only look at
him, and you will be convinced! Would you believe, looking at him, dear
Nastenka, that he has never known her whom he loves in his ecstatic
dreams? Can it be that he has only seen her in seductive visions, and
that this passion has been nothing but a dream? Surely they must have
spent years hand in hand together--alone the two of them, casting off
all the world and each uniting his or her life with the other's? Surely
when the hour of parting came she must have lain sobbing and grieving on
his bosom, heedless of the tempest raging under the sullen sky, heedless
of the wind which snatches and bears away the tears from her black
eyelashes? Can all of that have been a dream--and that garden, dejected,
forsaken, run wild, with its little moss-grown paths, solitary, gloomy,
where they used to walk so happily together, where they hoped, grieved,
loved, loved each other so long, "so long and so fondly?" And that queer
ancestral house where she spent so many years lonely and sad with her
morose old husband, always silent and splenetic, who frightened them,
while timid as children they hid their love from each other? What
torments they suffered, what agonies of terror, how innocent, how pure
was their love, and how (I need hardly say, Nastenka) malicious people
were! And, good Heavens! surely he met her afterwards, far from their
native shores, under alien skies, in the hot south in the divinely
eternal city, in the dazzling splendour of the ball to the crash of
music, in a _palazzo_ (it must be in a _palazzo_), drowned in
a sea of lights, on the balcony, wreathed in myrtle and roses, where,
recognizing him, she hurriedly removes her mask and whispering, 'I am
free,' flings herself trembling into his arms, and with a cry of
rapture, clinging to one another, in one instant they forget their
sorrow and their parting and all their agonies, and the gloomy house and
the old man and the dismal garden in that distant land, and the seat on
which with a last passionate kiss she tore herself away from his arms
numb with anguish and despair.... Oh, Nastenka, you must admit that one
would start, betray confusion, and blush like a schoolboy who has just
stuffed in his pocket an apple stolen from a neighbour's garden, when
your uninvited visitor, some stalwart, lanky fellow, a festive soul fond
of a joke, opens your door and shouts out as though nothing were
happening: 'My dear boy, I have this minute come from Pavlovsk.' My
goodness! the old count is dead, unutterable happiness is close at
hand--and people arrive from Pavlovsk!"

Finishing my pathetic appeal, I paused pathetically. I remembered that I
had an intense desire to force myself to laugh, for I was already
feeling that a malignant demon was stirring within me, that there was a
lump in my throat, that my chin was beginning to twitch, and that my
eyes were growing more and more moist.

I expected Nastenka, who listened to me opening her clever eyes, would
break into her childish, irrepressible laugh; and I was already
regretting that I had gone so far, that I had unnecessarily described
what had long been simmering in my heart, about which I could speak as
though from a written account of it, because I had long ago passed
judgment on myself and now could not resist reading it, making my
confession, without expecting to be understood; but to my surprise she
was silent, waiting a little, then she faintly pressed my hand and with
timid sympathy asked--

"Surely you haven't lived like that all your life?"

"All my life, Nastenka," I answered; "all my life, and it seems to me I
shall go on so to the end."

"No, that won't do," she said uneasily, "that must not be; and so,
maybe, I shall spend all my life beside grandmother. Do you know, it is
not at all good to live like that?"

"I know, Nastenka, I know!" I cried, unable to restrain my feelings
longer. "And I realize now, more than ever, that I have lost all my best
years! And now I know it and feel it more painfully from recognizing
that God has sent me you, my good angel, to tell me that and show it.
Now that I sit beside you and talk to you it is strange for me to think
of the future, for in the future--there is loneliness again, again this
musty, useless life; and what shall I have to dream of when I have been
so happy in reality beside you! Oh, may you be blessed, dear girl, for
not having repulsed me at first, for enabling me to say that for two
evenings, at least, I have lived."

"Oh, no, no!" cried Nastenka and tears glistened in her eyes. "No, it
mustn't be so any more; we must not part like that! what are two
evenings?"

"Oh, Nastenka, Nastenka! Do you know how far you have reconciled me to
myself? Do you know now that I shall not think so ill of myself, as I
have at some moments? Do you know that, maybe, I shall leave off
grieving over the crime and sin of my life? for such a life is a crime
and a sin. And do not imagine that I have been exaggerating
anything--for goodness' sake don't think that, Nastenka: for at times
such misery comes over me, such misery.... Because it begins to seem to
me at such times that I am incapable of beginning a life in real life,
because it has seemed to me that I have lost all touch, all instinct for
the actual, the real; because at last I have cursed myself; because
after my fantastic nights I have moments of returning sobriety, which
are awful! Meanwhile, you hear the whirl and roar of the crowd in the
vortex of life around you; you hear, you see, men living in reality; you
see that life for them is not forbidden, that their life does not float
away like a dream, like a vision; that their life is being eternally
renewed, eternally youthful, and not one hour of it is the same as
another; while fancy is so spiritless, monotonous to vulgarity and
easily scared, the slave of shadows, of the idea, the slave of the first
cloud that shrouds the sun, and overcasts with depression the true
Petersburg heart so devoted to the sun--and what is fancy in depression!
One feels that this _inexhaustible_ fancy is weary at last and worn
out with continual exercise, because one is growing into manhood,
outgrowing one's old ideals: they are being shattered into fragments,
into dust; if there is no other life one must build one up from the
fragments. And meanwhile the soul longs and craves for something else!
And in vain the dreamer rakes over his old dreams, as though seeking a
spark among the embers, to fan them into flame, to warm his chilled
heart by the rekindled fire, and to rouse up in it again all that was so
sweet, that touched his heart, that set his blood boiling, drew tears
from his eyes, and so luxuriously deceived him! Do you know, Nastenka,
the point I have reached? Do you know that I am forced now to celebrate
the anniversary of my own sensations, the anniversary of that which was
once so sweet, which never existed in reality--for this anniversary is
kept in memory of those same foolish, shadowy dreams--and to do this
because those foolish dreams are no more, because I have nothing to earn
them with; you know even dreams do not come for nothing! Do you know
that I love now to recall and visit at certain dates the places where I
was once happy in my own way? I love to build up my present in harmony
with the irrevocable past, and I often wander like a shadow, aimless,
sad and dejected, about the streets and crooked lanes of Petersburg.
What memories they are! To remember, for instance, that here just a year
ago, just at this time, at this hour, on this pavement, I wandered just
as lonely, just as dejected as to-day. And one remembers that then one's
dreams were sad, and though the past was no better one feels as though
it had somehow been better, and that life was more peaceful, that one
was free from the black thoughts that haunt one now; that one was free
from the gnawing of conscience--the gloomy, sullen gnawing which now
gives me no rest by day or by night. And one asks oneself where are
one's dreams. And one shakes one's head and says how rapidly the years
fly by! And again one asks oneself what has one done with one's years.
Where have you buried your best days? Have you lived or not? Look, one
says to oneself, look how cold the world is growing. Some more years
will pass, and after them will come gloomy solitude; then will come old
age trembling on its crutch, and after it misery and desolation. Your
fantastic world will grow pale, your dreams will fade and die and will
fall like the yellow leaves from the trees.... Oh, Nastenka! you know it
will be sad to be left alone, utterly alone, and to have not even
anything to regret--nothing, absolutely nothing ... for all that you
have lost, all that, all was nothing, stupid, simple nullity, there has
been nothing but dreams!"

"Come, don't work on my feelings any more," said Nastenka, wiping away a
tear which was trickling down her cheek. "Now it's over! Now we shall be
two together. Now, whatever happens to me, we will never part. Listen; I
am a simple girl, I have not had much education, though grandmother did
get a teacher for me, but truly I understand you, for all that you have
described I have been through myself, when grandmother pinned me to her
dress. Of course, I should not have described it so well as you have; I
am not educated," she added timidly, for she was still feeling a sort of
respect for my pathetic eloquence and lofty style; "but I am very glad
that you have been quite open with me. Now I know you thoroughly, all of
you. And do you know what? I want to tell you my history too, all
without concealment, and after that you must give me advice. You are a
very clever man; will you promise to give me advice?"

"Ah, Nastenka," I cried, "though I have never given advice, still less
sensible advice, yet I see now that if we always go on like this that it
will be very sensible, and that each of us will give the other a great
deal of sensible advice! Well, my pretty Nastenka, what sort of advice
do you want? Tell me frankly; at this moment I am so gay and happy, so
bold and sensible, that it won't be difficult for me to find words."

"No, no!" Nastenka interrupted, laughing. "I don't only want sensible
advice, I want warm brotherly advice, as though you had been fond of me
all your life!"

"Agreed, Nastenka, agreed!" I cried delighted; "and if I had been fond
of you for twenty years, I couldn't have been fonder of you than I am
now."

"Your hand," said Nastenka.

"Here it is," said I, giving her my hand.

"And so let us begin my history!"

NASTENKA'S HISTORY

"Half my story you know already--that is, you know that I have an old
grandmother...."

"If the other half is as brief as that ..." I interrupted, laughing.

"Be quiet and listen. First of all you must agree not to interrupt me,
or else, perhaps I shall get in a muddle! Come, listen quietly.

"I have an old grandmother. I came into her hands when I was quite a
little girl, for my father and mother are dead. It must be supposed that
grandmother was once richer, for now she recalls better days. She taught
me French, and then got a teacher for me. When I was fifteen (and now I
am seventeen) we gave up having lessons. It was at that time that I got
into mischief; what I did I won't tell you; it's enough to say that it
wasn't very important. But grandmother called me to her one morning and
said that as she was blind she could not look after me; she took a pin
and pinned my dress to hers, and said that we should sit like that for
the rest of our lives if, of course, I did not become a better girl. In
fact, at first it was impossible to get away from her: I had to work, to
read and to study all beside grandmother. I tried to deceive her once,
and persuaded Fekla to sit in my place. Fekla is our charwoman, she is
deaf. Fekla sat there instead of me; grandmother was asleep in her
armchair at the time, and I went off to see a friend close by. Well, it
ended in trouble. Grandmother woke up while I was out, and asked some
questions; she thought I was still sitting quietly in my place. Fekla
saw that grandmother was asking her something, but could not tell what
it was; she wondered what to do, undid the pin and ran away...."

At this point Nastenka stopped and began laughing. I laughed with her.
She left off at once.

"I tell you what, don't you laugh at grandmother. I laugh because it's
funny.... What can I do, since grandmother is like that; but yet I am
fond of her in a way. Oh, well, I did catch it that time. I had to sit
down in my place at once, and after that I was not allowed to stir.

"Oh, I forgot to tell you that our house belongs to us, that is to
grandmother; it is a little wooden house with three windows as old as
grandmother herself, with a little upper storey; well, there moved into
our upper storey a new lodger."

"Then you had an old lodger," I observed casually.

"Yes, of course," answered Nastenka, "and one who knew how to hold his
tongue better than you do. In fact, he hardly ever used his tongue at
all. He was a dumb, blind, lame, dried-up little old man, so that at
last he could not go on living, he died; so then we had to find a new
lodger, for we could not live without a lodger--the rent, together with
grandmother's pension, is almost all we have. But the new lodger, as
luck would have it, was a young man, a stranger not of these parts. As
he did not haggle over the rent, grandmother accepted him, and only
afterwards she asked me: 'Tell me, Nastenka, what is our lodger like--is
he young or old?' I did not want to lie, so I told grandmother that he
wasn't exactly young and that he wasn't old.

"'And is he pleasant looking?' asked grandmother.

"Again I did not want to tell a lie: 'Yes, he is pleasant looking,
grandmother,' I said. And grandmother said: 'Oh, what a nuisance, what a
nuisance! I tell you this, grandchild, that you may not be looking after
him. What times these are! Why a paltry lodger like this, and he must be
pleasant looking too; it was very different in the old days!'"

"Grandmother was always regretting the old days--she was younger in old
days, and the sun was warmer in old days, and cream did not turn so sour
in old days--it was always the old days! I would sit still and hold my
tongue and think to myself: why did grandmother suggest it to me? Why
did she ask whether the lodger was young and good-looking? But that was
all, I just thought it, began counting my stitches again, went on
knitting my stocking, and forgot all about it.

"Well, one morning the lodger came in to see us; he asked about a
promise to paper his rooms. One thing led to another. Grandmother was
talkative, and she said: 'Go, Nastenka, into my bedroom and bring me my
reckoner.' I jumped up at once; I blushed all over, I don't know why,
and forgot I was sitting pinned to grandmother; instead of quietly
undoing the pin, so that the lodger should not see--I jumped so that
grandmother's chair moved. When I saw that the lodger knew all about me
now, I blushed, stood still as though I had been shot, and suddenly
began to cry--I felt so ashamed and miserable at that minute, that I
didn't know where to look! Grandmother called out, 'What are you waiting
for?' and I went on worse than ever. When the lodger saw, saw that I was
ashamed on his account, he bowed and went away at once!

"After that I felt ready to die at the least sound in the passage. 'It's
the lodger,' I kept thinking; I stealthily undid the pin in case. But it
always turned out not to be, he never came. A fortnight passed; the
lodger sent word through Fyokla that he had a great number of French
books, and that they were all good books that I might read, so would not
grandmother like me to read them that I might not be dull? Grandmother
agreed with gratitude, but kept asking if they were moral books, for if
the books were immoral it would be out of the question, one would learn
evil from them."

"'And what should I learn, grandmother? What is there written in them?'

"'Ah,' she said, 'what's described in them, is how young men seduce
virtuous girls; how, on the excuse that they want to marry them, they
carry them off from their parents' houses; how afterwards they leave
these unhappy girls to their fate, and they perish in the most pitiful
way. I read a great many books,' said grandmother, 'and it is all so
well described that one sits up all night and reads them on the sly. So
mind you don't read them, Nastenka,' said she. 'What books has he sent?'

"'They are all Walter Scott's novels, grandmother.'

"'Walter Scott's novels! But stay, isn't there some trick about it?
Look, hasn't he stuck a love-letter among them?'

"'No, grandmother,' I said, 'there isn't a love-letter.'

"'But look under the binding; they sometimes stuff it under the
bindings, the rascals!'

"'No, grandmother, there is nothing under the binding.'

"'Well, that's all right.'

"So we began reading Walter Scott, and in a month or so we had read
almost half. Then he sent us more and more. He sent us Pushkin, too; so
that at last I could not get on without a book and left off dreaming of
how fine it would be to marry a Chinese Prince.

"That's how things were when I chanced one day to meet our lodger on the
stairs. Grandmother had sent me to fetch something. He stopped, I
blushed and he blushed; he laughed, though, said good-morning to me,
asked after grandmother, and said, 'Well, have you read the books?' I
answered that I had. 'Which did you like best?' he asked. I said,
'Ivanhoe, and Pushkin best of all,' and so our talk ended for that time.

"A week later I met him again on the stairs. That time grandmother had
not sent me, I wanted to get something for myself. It was past two, and
the lodger used to come home at that time. 'Good-afternoon,' said he. I
said good-afternoon, too.

"'Aren't you dull,' he said, 'sitting all day with your grandmother?'

"When he asked that, I blushed, I don't know why; I felt ashamed, and
again I felt offended--I suppose because other people had begun to ask
me about that. I wanted to go away without answering, but I hadn't the
strength.

"'Listen,' he said, 'you are a good girl. Excuse my speaking to you like
that, but I assure you that I wish for your welfare quite as much as
your grandmother. Have you no friends that you could go and visit?'

"I told him I hadn't any, that I had had no friend but Mashenka, and she
had gone away to Pskov.

"'Listen,' he said, 'would you like to go to the theatre with me?'

"'To the theatre. What about grandmother?'

"'But you must go without your grandmother's knowing it,' he said.

"'No,' I said, 'I don't want to deceive grandmother. Good-bye.'

"'Well, good-bye,' he answered, and said nothing more.

"Only after dinner he came to see us; sat a long time talking to
grandmother; asked her whether she ever went out anywhere, whether she
had acquaintances, and suddenly said: 'I have taken a box at the opera
for this evening; they are giving _The Barber of Seville_. My friends
meant to go, but afterwards refused, so the ticket is left on my hands.'
'_The Barber of Seville_,' cried grandmother; 'why, the same they used
to act in old days?'

"'Yes, it's the same barber,' he said, and glanced at me. I saw what it
meant and turned crimson, and my heart began throbbing with suspense.

"'To be sure, I know it,' said grandmother; 'why, I took the part of
Rosina myself in old days, at a private performance!'

"'So wouldn't you like to go to-day?' said the lodger. 'Or my ticket
will be wasted.'

"'By all means let us go,' said grandmother; why shouldn't we? And my
Nastenka here has never been to the theatre.'

"My goodness, what joy! We got ready at once, put on our best clothes,
and set off. Though grandmother was blind, still she wanted to hear the
music; besides, she is a kind old soul, what she cared most for was to
amuse me, we should never have gone of ourselves.

"What my impressions of _The Barber of Seville_ were I won't tell you;
but all that evening our lodger looked at me so nicely, talked so
nicely, that I saw at once that he had meant to test me in the morning
when he proposed that I should go with him alone. Well, it was joy! I
went to bed so proud, so gay, my heart beat so that I was a little
feverish, and all night I was raving about _The Barber of Seville_.

"I expected that he would come and see us more and more often after
that, but it wasn't so at all. He almost entirely gave up coming. He
would just come in about once a month, and then only to invite us to the
theatre. We went twice again. Only I wasn't at all pleased with that; I
saw that he was simply sorry for me because I was so hardly treated by
grandmother, and that was all. As time went on, I grew more and more
restless, I couldn't sit still, I couldn't read, I couldn't work;
sometimes I laughed and did something to annoy grandmother, at another
time I would cry. At last I grew thin and was very nearly ill. The opera
season was over, and our lodger had quite given up coming to see us;
whenever we met--always on the same staircase, of course--he would bow
so silently, so gravely, as though he did not want to speak, and go down
to the front door, while I went on standing in the middle of the stairs,
as red as a cherry, for all the blood rushed to my head at the sight of
him.

"Now the end is near. Just a year ago, in May, the lodger came to us and
said to grandmother that he had finished his business here, and that he
must go back to Moscow for a year. When I heard that, I sank into a
chair half dead; grandmother did not notice anything; and having
informed us that he should be leaving us, he bowed and went away.

"What was I to do? I thought and thought and fretted and fretted, and at
last I made up my mind. Next day he was to go away, and I made up my
mind to end it all that evening when grandmother went to bed. And so it
happened. I made up all my clothes in a parcel--all the linen I
needed--and with the parcel in my hand, more dead than alive, went
upstairs to our lodger. I believe I must have stayed an hour on the
staircase. When I opened his door he cried out as he looked at me. He
thought I was a ghost, and rushed to give me some water, for I could
hardly stand up. My heart beat so violently that my head ached, and I
did not know what I was doing. When I recovered I began by laying my
parcel on his bed, sat down beside it, hid my face in my hands and went
into floods of tears. I think he understood it all at once, and looked
at me so sadly that my heart was torn.

"'Listen,' he began, 'listen, Nastenka, I can't do anything; I am a poor
man, for I have nothing, not even a decent berth. How could we live, if
I were to marry you?'

"We talked a long time; but at last I got quite frantic, I said I could
not go on living with grandmother, that I should run away from her, that
I did not want to be pinned to her, and that I would go to Moscow if he
liked, because I could not live without him. Shame and pride and love
were all clamouring in me at once, and I fell on the bed almost in
convulsions, I was so afraid of a refusal.

"He sat for some minutes in silence, then got up, came up to me and took
me by the hand.

"'Listen, my dear good Nastenka, listen; I swear to you that if I am
ever in a position to marry, you shall make my happiness. I assure you
that now you are the only one who could make me happy. Listen, I am
going to Moscow and shall be there just a year; I hope to establish my
position. When I come back, if you still love me, I swear that we will
be happy. Now it is impossible, I am not able, I have not the right to
promise anything. Well, I repeat, if it is not within a year it will
certainly be some time; that is, of course, if you do not prefer any one
else, for I cannot and dare not bind you by any sort of promise.'

"That was what he said to me, and next day he went away. We agreed
together not to say a word to grandmother: that was his wish. Well, my
history is nearly finished now. Just a year has past. He has arrived; he
has been here three days, and, and----"

"And what?" I cried, impatient to hear the end.

"And up to now has not shown himself!" answered Nastenka, as though
screwing up all her courage. "There's no sign or sound of him."

Here she stopped, paused for a minute, bent her head, and covering her
face with her hands broke into such sobs that it sent a pang to my heart
to hear them. I had not in the least expected such a _dénouement_.

"Nastenka," I began timidly in an ingratiating voice, "Nastenka! For
goodness' sake don't cry! How do you know? Perhaps he is not here
yet...."

"He is, he is," Nastenka repeated. "He is here, and I know it. We _made
an agreement_ at the time, that evening, before he went away: when we
said all that I have told you, and had come to an understanding, then we
came out here for a walk on this embankment. It was ten o'clock; we sat
on this seat. I was not crying then; it was sweet to me to hear what he
said.... And he said that he would come to us directly he arrived, and
if I did not refuse him, then we would tell grandmother about it all.
Now he is here, I know it, and yet he does not come!"

And again she burst into tears.

"Good God, can I do nothing to help you in your sorrow?" I cried jumping
up from the seat in utter despair. "Tell me, Nastenka, wouldn't it be
possible for me to go to him?"

"Would that be possible?" she asked suddenly, raising her head.

"No, of course not," I said pulling myself up; "but I tell you what,
write a letter."

"No, that's impossible, I can't do that," she answered with decision,
bending her head and not looking at me.

"How impossible--why is it impossible?" I went on, clinging to my idea.
"But, Nastenka, it depends what sort of letter; there are letters and
letters and.... Ah, Nastenka, I am right; trust to me, trust to me, I
will not give you bad advice. It can all be arranged! You took the first
step--why not now?"

"I can't. I can't! It would seem as though I were forcing myself on
him...."

"Ah, my good little Nastenka," I said, hardly able to conceal a smile;
"no, no, you have a right to, in fact, because he made you a promise.
Besides, I can see from everything that he is a man of delicate feeling;
that he behaved very well," I went on, more and more carried away by the
logic of my own arguments and convictions. "How did he behave? He bound
himself by a promise: he said that if he married at all he would marry
no one but you; he gave you full liberty to refuse him at once.... Under
such circumstances you may take the first step; you have the right; you
are in the privileged position--if, for instance, you wanted to free him
from his promise...."

"Listen; how would you write?"

"Write what?"

"This letter."

"I tell you how I would write: 'Dear Sir.'..."

"Must I really begin like that, 'Dear Sir'?"

"You certainly must! Though, after all, I don't know, I imagine...."

"Well, well, what next?"

"'Dear Sir,--I must apologize for----' But, no, there's no need to
apologize; the fact itself justifies everything. Write simply:--

    "'I am writing to you. Forgive me my impatience; but I have
    been happy for a whole year in hope; am I to blame for being
    unable to endure a day of doubt now? Now that you have come,
    perhaps you have changed your mind. If so, this letter is to
    tell you that I do not repine, nor blame you. I do not blame
    you because I have no power over your heart, such is my
    fate!

    "'You are an honourable man. You will not smile or be vexed
    at these impatient lines. Remember they are written by a
    poor girl; that she is alone; that she has no one to direct
    her, no one to advise her, and that she herself could never
    control her heart. But forgive me that a doubt has
    stolen--if only for one instant--into my heart. You are not
    capable of insulting, even in thought, her who so loved and
    so loves you.'"

"Yes, yes; that's exactly what I was thinking!" cried Nastenka, and her
eyes beamed with delight. "Oh, you have solved my difficulties: God has
sent you to me! Thank you, thank you!"

"What for? What for? For God's sending me?" I answered, looking
delighted at her joyful little face. "Why, yes; for that too."

"Ah, Nastenka! Why, one thanks some people for being alive at the same
time with one; I thank you for having met me, for my being able to
remember you all my life!"

"Well, enough, enough! But now I tell you what, listen: we made an
agreement then that as soon as he arrived he would let me know, by
leaving a letter with some good simple people of my acquaintance who
know nothing about it; or, if it were impossible to write a letter to
me, for a letter does not always tell everything, he would be here at
ten o'clock on the day he arrived, where we had arranged to meet. I know
he has arrived already; but now it's the third day, and there's no sign
of him and no letter. It's impossible for me to get away from
grandmother in the morning. Give my letter to-morrow to those kind
people I spoke to you about: they will send it on to him, and if there
is an answer you bring it to-morrow at ten o'clock."

"But the letter, the letter! You see, you must write the letter first!
So perhaps it must all be the day after to-morrow."

"The letter ..." said Nastenka, a little confused, "the letter ...
but...."

But she did not finish. At first she turned her little face away from
me, flushed like a rose, and suddenly I felt in my hand a letter which
had evidently been written long before, all ready and sealed up. A
familiar sweet and charming reminiscence floated through my mind.

"R, o--Ro; s, i--si; n, a--na," I began.

"Rosina!" we both hummed together; I almost embracing her with delight,
while she blushed as only she could blush, and laughed through the tears
which gleamed like pearls on her black eyelashes.

"Come, enough, enough! Good-bye now," she said speaking rapidly. "Here
is the letter, here is the address to which you are to take it.
Good-bye, till we meet again! Till to-morrow!"

She pressed both my hands warmly, nodded her head, and flew like an
arrow down her side street. I stood still for a long time following her
with my eyes.

"Till to-morrow! till to-morrow!" was ringing in my ears as she vanished
from my sight.

THIRD NIGHT

To-day was a gloomy, rainy day without a glimmer of sunlight, like the
old age before me. I am oppressed by such strange thoughts, such gloomy
sensations; questions still so obscure to me are crowding into my
brain--and I seem to have neither power nor will to settle them. It's
not for me to settle all this!

To-day we shall not meet. Yesterday, when we said good-bye, the clouds
began gathering over the sky and a mist rose. I said that to-morrow it
would be a bad day; she made no answer, she did not want to speak
against her wishes; for her that day was bright and clear, not one cloud
should obscure her happiness.

"If it rains we shall not see each other," she said, "I shall not come."

I thought that she would not notice to-day's rain, and yet she has not
come.

Yesterday was our third interview, our third white night....

But how fine joy and happiness makes any one! How brimming over with
love the heart is! One seems longing to pour out one's whole heart; one
wants everything to be gay, everything to be laughing. And how
infectious that joy is! There was such a softness in her words, such a
kindly feeling in her heart towards me yesterday.... How solicitous and
friendly she was; how tenderly she tried to give me courage! Oh, the
coquetry of happiness! While I ... I took it all for the genuine thing,
I thought that she....

But, my God, how could I have thought it? How could I have been so
blind, when everything had been taken by another already, when nothing
was mine; when, in fact, her very tenderness to me, her anxiety, her
love ... yes, love for me, was nothing else but joy at the thought of
seeing another man so soon, desire to include me, too, in her
happiness?... When he did not come, when we waited in vain, she frowned,
she grew timid and discouraged. Her movements, her words, were no longer
so light, so playful, so gay; and, strange to say, she redoubled her
attentiveness to me, as though instinctively desiring to lavish on me
what she desired for herself so anxiously, if her wishes were not
accomplished. My Nastenka was so downcast, so dismayed, that I think she
realized at last that I loved her, and was sorry for my poor love. So
when we are unhappy we feel the unhappiness of others more; feeling is
not destroyed but concentrated....

I went to meet her with a full heart, and was all impatience. I had no
presentiment that I should feel as I do now, that it would not all end
happily. She was beaming with pleasure; she was expecting an answer. The
answer was himself. He was to come, to run at her call. She arrived a
whole hour before I did. At first she giggled at everything, laughed at
every word I said. I began talking, but relapsed into silence.

"Do you know why I am so glad," she said, "so glad to look at you?--why
I like you so much to-day?"

"Well?" I asked, and my heart began throbbing.

"I like you because you have not fallen in love with me. You know that
some men in your place would have been pestering and worrying me, would
have been sighing and miserable, while you are so nice!"

Then she wrung my hand so hard that I almost cried out. She laughed.

"Goodness, what a friend you are!" she began gravely a minute later.
"God sent you to me. What would have happened to me if you had not been
with me now? How disinterested you are! How truly you care for me! When
I am married we will be great friends, more than brother and sister; I
shall care almost as I do for him...."

I felt horribly sad at that moment, yet something like laughter was
stirring in my soul.

"You are very much upset," I said; "you are frightened; you think he
won't come."

"Oh dear!" she answered; "if I were less happy, I believe I should cry
at your lack of faith, at your reproaches. However, you have made me
think and have given me a lot to think about; but I shall think later,
and now I will own that you are right. Yes, I am somehow not myself; I
am all suspense, and feel everything as it were too lightly. But hush!
that's enough about feelings...."

At that moment we heard footsteps, and in the darkness we saw a figure
coming towards us. We both started; she almost cried out; I dropped her
hand and made a movement as though to walk away. But we were mistaken,
it was not he.

"What are you afraid of? Why did you let go of my hand?" she said,
giving it to me again. "Come, what is it? We will meet him together; I
want him to see how fond we are of each other."

"How fond we are of each other!" I cried. ("Oh, Nastenka, Nastenka," I
thought, "how much you have told me in that saying! Such fondness at
_certain_ moments makes the heart cold and the soul heavy. Your hand is
cold, mine burns like fire. How blind you are, Nastenka!... Oh, how
unbearable a happy person is sometimes! But I could not be angry with
you!")

At last my heart was too full.

"Listen, Nastenka!" I cried. "Do you know how it has been with me all
day."

"Why, how, how? Tell me quickly! Why have you said nothing all this
time?"

"To begin with, Nastenka, when I had carried out all your commissions,
given the letter, gone to see your good friends, then ... then I went
home and went to bed."

"Is that all?" she interrupted, laughing.

"Yes, almost all," I answered restraining myself, for foolish tears were
already starting into my eyes. "I woke an hour before our appointment,
and yet, as it were, I had not been asleep. I don't know what happened
to me. I came to tell you all about it, feeling as though time were
standing still, feeling as though one sensation, one feeling must remain
with me from that time for ever; feeling as though one minute must go on
for all eternity, and as though all life had come to a standstill for
me.... When I woke up it seemed as though some musical motive long
familiar, heard somewhere in the past, forgotten and voluptuously sweet,
had come back to me now. It seemed to me that it had been clamouring at
my heart all my life, and only now...."

"Oh my goodness, my goodness," Nastenka interrupted, "what does all that
mean? I don't understand a word."

"Ah, Nastenka, I wanted somehow to convey to you that strange
impression...." I began in a plaintive voice, in which there still lay
hid a hope, though a very faint one.

"Leave off. Hush!" she said, and in one instant the sly puss had
guessed.

Suddenly she became extraordinarily talkative, gay, mischievous; she
took my arm, laughed, wanted me to laugh too, and every confused word I
uttered evoked from her prolonged ringing laughter.... I began to feel
angry, she had suddenly begun flirting.

"Do you know," she began, "I feel a little vexed that you are not in
love with me? There's no understanding human nature! But all the same,
Mr. Unapproachable, you cannot blame me for being so simple; I tell you
everything, everything, whatever foolish thought comes into my head."

"Listen! That's eleven, I believe," I said as the slow chime of a bell
rang out from a distant tower. She suddenly stopped, left off laughing
and began to count.

"Yes, it's eleven," she said at last in a timid, uncertain voice.

I regretted at once that I had frightened her, making her count the
strokes, and I cursed myself for my spiteful impulse; I felt sorry for
her, and did not know how to atone for what I had done.

I began comforting her, seeking for reasons for his not coming,
advancing various arguments, proofs. No one could have been easier to
deceive than she was at that moment; and, indeed, any one at such a
moment listens gladly to any consolation, whatever it may be, and is
overjoyed if a shadow of excuse can be found.

"And indeed it's an absurd thing," I began, warming to my task and
admiring the extraordinary clearness of my argument, "why, he could not
have come; you have muddled and confused me, Nastenka, so that I too,
have lost count of the time.... Only think: he can scarcely have
received the letter; suppose he is not able to come, suppose he is going
to answer the letter, could not come before to-morrow. I will go for it
as soon as it's light to-morrow and let you know at once. Consider,
there are thousands of possibilities; perhaps he was not at home when
the letter came, and may not have read it even now! Anything may happen,
you know."

"Yes, yes!" said Nastenka. "I did not think of that. Of course anything
may happen?" she went on in a tone that offered no opposition, though
some other far-away thought could be heard like a vexatious discord in
it. "I tell you what you must do," she said, "you go as early as
possible to-morrow morning, and if you get anything let me know at once.
You know where I live, don't you?"

And she began repeating her address to me.

Then she suddenly became so tender, so solicitous with me. She seemed to
listen attentively to what I told her; but when I asked her some
question she was silent, was confused, and turned her head away. I
looked into her eyes--yes, she was crying.

"How can you? How can you? Oh, what a baby you are! what
childishness!... Come, come!"

She tried to smile, to calm herself, but her chin was quivering and her
bosom was still heaving.

"I was thinking about you," she said after a minute's silence. "You are
so kind that I should be a stone if I did not feel it. Do you know what
has occurred to me now? I was comparing you two. Why isn't he you? Why
isn't he like you? He is not as good as you, though I love him more than
you."

I made no answer. She seemed to expect me to say something.

"Of course, it may be that I don't understand him fully yet. You know I
was always as it were afraid of him; he was always so grave, as it were
so proud. Of course I know it's only that he seems like that, I know
there is more tenderness in his heart than in mine.... I remember how he
looked at me when I went in to him--do you remember?--with my bundle;
but yet I respect him too much, and doesn't that show that we are not
equals?"

"No, Nastenka, no," I answered, "it shows that you love him more than
anything in the world, and far more than yourself."

"Yes, supposing that is so," answered Nastenka naïvely. "But do you know
what strikes me now? Only I am not talking about him now, but speaking
generally; all this came into my mind some time ago. Tell me, how is it
that we can't all be like brothers together? Why is it that even the
best of men always seem to hide something from other people and to keep
something back? Why not say straight out what is in one's heart, when
one knows that one is not speaking idly? As it is every one seems
harsher than he really is, as though all were afraid of doing injustice
to their feelings, by being too quick to express them."

"Oh, Nastenka, what you say is true; but there are many reasons for
that," I broke in suppressing my own feelings at that moment more than
ever.

"No, no!" she answered with deep feeling. "Here you, for instance, are
not like other people! I really don't know how to tell you what I feel;
but it seems to me that you, for instance ... at the present moment ...
it seems to me that you are sacrificing something for me," she added
timidly, with a fleeting glance at me. "Forgive me for saying so, I am a
simple girl you know. I have seen very little of life, and I really
sometimes don't know how to say things," she added in a voice that
quivered with some hidden feeling, while she tried to smile; "but I only
wanted to tell you that I am grateful, that I feel it all too.... Oh,
may God give you happiness for it! What you told me about your dreamer
is quite untrue now--that is, I mean, it's not true of you. You are
recovering, you are quite a different man from what you described. If
you ever fall in love with some one, God give you happiness with her! I
won't wish anything for her, for she will be happy with you. I know, I
am a woman myself, so you must believe me when I tell you so."

She ceased speaking, and pressed my hand warmly. I too could not speak
without emotion. Some minutes passed.

"Yes, it's clear he won't come to-night," she said at last raising her
head. "It's late."

"He will come to-morrow," I said in the most firm and convincing tone.

"Yes," she added with no sign of her former depression. "I see for
myself now that he could not come till to-morrow. Well, good-bye, till
to-morrow. If it rains perhaps I shall not come. But the day after
to-morrow, I shall come. I shall come for certain, whatever happens; be
sure to be here, I want to see you, I will tell you everything."

And then when we parted she gave me her hand and said, looking at me
candidly: "We shall always be together, shan't we?"

Oh, Nastenka, Nastenka! If only you knew how lonely I am now!

As soon as it struck nine o'clock I could not stay indoors, but put on
my things, and went out in spite of the weather. I was there, sitting on
our seat. I went to her street, but I felt ashamed, and turned back
without looking at their windows, when I was two steps from her door. I
went home more depressed than I had ever been before. What a damp,
dreary day! If it had been fine I should have walked about all night....

But to-morrow, to-morrow! To-morrow she will tell me everything. The
letter has not come to-day, however. But that was to be expected. They
are together by now....

FOURTH NIGHT

My God, how it has all ended! What it has all ended in! I arrived at
nine o'clock. She was already there. I noticed her a good way off; she
was standing as she had been that first time, with her elbows on the
railing, and she did not hear me coming up to her.

"Nastenka!" I called to her, suppressing my agitation with an effort.

She turned to me quickly.

"Well?" she said. "Well? Make haste!"

I looked at her in perplexity.

"Well, where is the letter? Have you brought the letter?" she repeated
clutching at the railing.

"No, there is no letter," I said at last. "Hasn't he been to you yet?"
She turned fearfully pale and looked at me for a long time without
moving. I had shattered her last hope.

"Well, God be with him," she said at last in a breaking voice; "God be
with him if he leaves me like that."

She dropped her eyes, then tried to look at me and could not. For
several minutes she was struggling with her emotion. All at once she
turned away, leaning her elbows against the railing and burst into
tears.

"Oh don't, don't!" I began; but looking at her I had not the heart to go
on, and what was I to say to her?

"Don't try and comfort me," she said; "don't talk about him; don't tell
me that he will come, that he has not cast me off so cruelly and so
inhumanly as he has. What for--what for? Can there have been something
in my letter, that unlucky letter?"

At that point sobs stifled her voice; my heart was torn as I looked at
her.

"Oh, how inhumanly cruel it is!" she began again. "And not a line, not a
line! He might at least have written that he does not want me, that he
rejects me--but not a line for three days! How easy it is for him to
wound, to insult a poor, defenceless girl, whose only fault is that she
loves him! Oh, what I've suffered during these three days! Oh, dear!
When I think that I was the first to go to him, that I humbled myself
before him, cried, that I begged of him a little love!... and after
that! Listen," she said, turning to me, and her black eyes flashed, "it
isn't so! It can't be so; it isn't natural. Either you are mistaken or
I; perhaps he has not received the letter? Perhaps he still knows
nothing about it? How could any one--judge for yourself, tell me, for
goodness' sake explain it to me, I can't understand it--how could any
one behave with such barbarous coarseness as he has behaved to me? Not
one word! Why, the lowest creature on earth is treated more
compassionately. Perhaps he has heard something, perhaps some one has
told him something about me," she cried, turning to me inquiringly:
"What do you think?"

"Listen, Nastenka, I shall go to him to-morrow in your name."

"Yes?"

"I will question him about everything; I will tell him everything."

"Yes, yes?"

"You write a letter. Don't say no, Nastenka, don't say no! I will make
him respect your action, he shall hear all about it, and if----"

"No, my friend, no," she interrupted. "Enough! Not another word, not
another line from me--enough! I don't know him; I don't love him any
more. I will ... forget him."

She could not go on.

"Calm yourself, calm yourself! Sit here, Nastenka," I said, making her
sit down on the seat.

"I am calm. Don't trouble. It's nothing! It's only tears, they will soon
dry. Why, do you imagine I shall do away with myself, that I shall throw
myself into the river?"

My heart was full: I tried to speak, but I could not.

"Listen," she said taking my hand. "Tell me: you wouldn't have behaved
like this, would you? You would not have abandoned a girl who had come
to you of herself, you would not have thrown into her face a shameless
taunt at her weak foolish heart? You would have taken care of her? You
would have realized that she was alone, that she did not know how to
look after herself, that she could not guard herself from loving you,
that it was not her fault, not her fault--that she had done nothing....
Oh dear, oh dear!"

"Nastenka!" I cried at last, unable to control my emotion. "Nastenka,
you torture me! You wound my heart, you are killing me, Nastenka! I
cannot be silent! I must speak at last, give utterance to what is
surging in my heart!"

As I said this I got up from the seat. She took my hand and looked at me
in surprise.

"What is the matter with you?" she said at last.

"Listen," I said resolutely. "Listen to me, Nastenka! What I am going to
say to you now is all nonsense, all impossible, all stupid! I know that
this can never be, but I cannot be silent. For the sake of what you are
suffering now, I beg you beforehand to forgive me!"

"What is it? What is it?" she said drying her tears and looking at me
intently, while a strange curiosity gleamed in her astonished eyes.
"What is the matter?"

"It's impossible, but I love you, Nastenka! There it is! Now everything
is told," I said with a wave of my hand. "Now you will see whether you
can go on talking to me as you did just now, whether you can listen to
what I am going to say to you."...

"Well, what then?" Nastenka interrupted me. "What of it? I knew you
loved me long ago, only I always thought that you simply liked me very
much.... Oh dear, oh dear!"

"At first it was simply liking, Nastenka, but now, now! I am just in the
same position as you were when you went to him with your bundle. In a
worse position than you, Nastenka, because he cared for no one else as
you do."

"What are you saying to me! I don't understand you in the least. But
tell me, what's this for; I don't mean what for, but why are you ... so
suddenly.... Oh dear, I am talking nonsense! But you...."

And Nastenka broke off in confusion. Her cheeks flamed; she dropped her
eyes.

"What's to be done, Nastenka, what am I to do? I am to blame. I have
abused your.... But no, no, I am not to blame, Nastenka; I feel that, I
know that, because my heart tells me I am right, for I cannot hurt you
in any way, I cannot wound you! I was your friend, but I am still your
friend, I have betrayed no trust. Here my tears are falling, Nastenka.
Let them flow, let them flow--they don't hurt anybody. They will dry,
Nastenka."

"Sit down, sit down," she said, making me sit down on the seat. "Oh, my
God!"

"No, Nastenka, I won't sit down; I cannot stay here any longer, you
cannot see me again; I will tell you everything and go away. I only want
to say that you would never have found out that I loved you. I should
have kept my secret. I would not have worried you at such a moment with
my egoism. No! But I could not resist it now; you spoke of it yourself,
it is your fault, your fault and not mine. You cannot drive me away from
you."...

"No, no, I don't drive you away, no!" said Nastenka, concealing her
confusion as best she could, poor child.

"You don't drive me away? No! But I meant to run from you myself. I will
go away, but first I will tell you all, for when you were crying here I
could not sit unmoved, when you wept, when you were in torture at
being--at being--I will speak of it, Nastenka--at being forsaken, at
your love being repulsed, I felt that in my heart there was so much love
for you, Nastenka, so much love! And it seemed so bitter that I could
not help you with my love, that my heart was breaking and I ... I could
not be silent, I had to speak, Nastenka, I had to speak!"

"Yes, yes! tell me, talk to me," said Nastenka with an indescribable
gesture. "Perhaps you think it strange that I talk to you like this, but
... speak! I will tell you afterwards! I will tell you everything."

"You are sorry for me, Nastenka, you are simply sorry for me, my dear
little friend! What's done can't be mended. What is said cannot be taken
back. Isn't that so? Well, now you know. That's the starting-point. Very
well. Now it's all right, only listen. When you were sitting crying I
thought to myself (oh, let me tell you what I was thinking!), I thought,
that (of course it cannot be, Nastenka), I thought that you ... I
thought that you somehow ... quite apart from me, had ceased to love
him. Then--I thought that yesterday and the day before yesterday,
Nastenka--then I would--I certainly would--have succeeded in making you
love me; you know, you said yourself, Nastenka, that you almost loved
me. Well, what next? Well, that's nearly all I wanted to tell you; all
that is left to say is how it would be if you loved me, only that,
nothing more! Listen, my friend--for any way you are my friend--I am, of
course, a poor, humble man, of no great consequence; but that's not the
point (I don't seem to be able to say what I mean, Nastenka, I am so
confused), only I would love you, I would love you so, that even if you
still loved him, even if you went on loving the man I don't know, you
would never feel that my love was a burden to you. You would only feel
every minute that at your side was beating a grateful, grateful heart, a
warm heart ready for your sake.... Oh Nastenka, Nastenka! What have you
done to me?"

"Don't cry; I don't want you to cry," said Nastenka getting up quickly
from the seat. "Come along, get up, come with me, don't cry, don't cry,"
she said, drying her tears with her handkerchief; "let us go now; maybe
I will tell you something.... If he has forsaken me now, if he has
forgotten me, though I still love him (I do not want to deceive you) ...
but listen, answer me. If I were to love you, for instance, that is, if
I only.... Oh my friend, my friend! To think, to think how I wounded
you, when I laughed at your love, when I praised you for not falling in
love with me. Oh dear! How was it I did not foresee this, how was it I
did not foresee this, how could I have been so stupid? But.... Well, I
have made up my mind, I will tell you."

"Look here, Nastenka, do you know what? I'll go away, that's what I'll
do. I am simply tormenting you. Here you are remorseful for having
laughed at me, and I won't have you ... in addition to your sorrow....
Of course it is my fault, Nastenka, but good-bye!"

"Stay, listen to me: can you wait?"

"What for? How?"

"I love him; but I shall get over it, I must get over it, I cannot fail
to get over it; I am getting over it, I feel that.... Who knows? Perhaps
it will all end to-day, for I hate him, for he has been laughing at me,
while you have been weeping here with me, for you have not repulsed me
as he has, for you love me while he has never loved me, for in fact, I
love you myself.... Yes, I love you! I love you as you love me; I have
told you so before, you heard it yourself--I love you because you are
better than he is, because you are nobler than he is, because, because
he----"

The poor girl's emotion was so violent that she could not say more; she
laid her head upon my shoulder, then upon my bosom, and wept bitterly. I
comforted her, I persuaded her, but she could not stop crying; she kept
pressing my hand, and saying between her sobs: "Wait, wait, it will be
over in a minute! I want to tell you ... you mustn't think that these
tears--it's nothing, it's weakness, wait till it's over."... At last she
left off crying, dried her eyes and we walked on again. I wanted to
speak, but she still begged me to wait. We were silent.... At last she
plucked up courage and began to speak.

"It's like this," she began in a weak and quivering voice, in which,
however, there was a note that pierced my heart with a sweet pang;
"don't think that I am so light and inconstant, don't think that I can
forget and change so quickly. I have loved him for a whole year, and I
swear by God that I have never, never, even in thought, been unfaithful
to him.... He has despised me, he has been laughing at me--God forgive
him! But he has insulted me and wounded my heart. I ... I do not love
him, for I can only love what is magnanimous, what understands me, what
is generous; for I am like that myself and he is not worthy of me--well,
that's enough of him. He has done better than if he had deceived my
expectations later, and shown me later what he was.... Well, it's over!
But who knows, my dear friend," she went on pressing my hand, "who
knows, perhaps my whole love was a mistaken feeling, a delusion--perhaps
it began in mischief, in nonsense, because I was kept so strictly by
grandmother? Perhaps I ought to love another man, not him, a different
man, who would have pity on me and ... and.... But don't let us say any
more about that," Nastenka broke off, breathless with emotion, "I only
wanted to tell you ... I wanted to tell you that if, although I love him
(no, did love him), if, in spite of this you still say.... If you feel
that your love is so great that it may at last drive from my heart my
old feeling--if you will have pity on me--if you do not want to leave me
alone to my fate, without hope, without consolation--if you are ready to
love me always as you do now--I swear to you that gratitude ... that my
love will be at last worthy of your love.... Will you take my hand?"

"Nastenka!" I cried breathless with sobs. "Nastenka, oh Nastenka!"

"Enough, enough! Well, now it's quite enough," she said, hardly able to
control herself. "Well, now all has been said, hasn't it! Hasn't it? You
are happy--I am happy too. Not another word about it, wait; spare me ...
talk of something else, for God's sake."

"Yes, Nastenka, yes! Enough about that, now I am happy. I---- Yes,
Nastenka, yes, let us talk of other things, let us make haste and talk.
Yes! I am ready."

And we did not know what to say: we laughed, we wept, we said thousands
of things meaningless and incoherent; at one moment we walked along the
pavement, then suddenly turned back and crossed the road; then we
stopped and went back again to the embankment; we were like children.

"I am living alone now, Nastenka," I began, "but to-morrow! Of course
you know, Nastenka, I am poor, I have only got twelve hundred roubles,
but that doesn't matter."

"Of course not, and granny has her pension, so she will be no burden. We
must take granny."

"Of course we must take granny. But there's Matrona."

"Yes, and we've got Fyokla too!"

"Matrona is a good woman, but she has one fault: she has no imagination,
Nastenka, absolutely none; but that doesn't matter."

"That's all right--they can live together; only you must move to us
to-morrow."

"To you? How so? All right, I am ready."

"Yes, hire a room from us. We have a top floor, it's empty. We had an
old lady lodging there, but she has gone away; and I know granny would
like to have a young man. I said to her, 'Why a young man?' And she
said, 'Oh, because I am old; only don't you fancy, Nastenka, that I want
him as a husband for you.' So I guessed it was with that idea."

"Oh, Nastenka!"

And we both laughed.

"Come, that's enough, that's enough. But where do you live? I've
forgotten."

"Over that way, near X bridge, Barannikov's Buildings."

"It's that big house?"

"Yes, that big house."

"Oh, I know, a nice house; only you know you had better give it up and
come to us as soon as possible."

"To-morrow, Nastenka, to-morrow; I owe a little for my rent there but
that doesn't matter. I shall soon get my salary."

"And do you know I will perhaps give lessons; I will learn something
myself and then give lessons."

"Capital! And I shall soon get a bonus."

"So by to-morrow you will be my lodger."

"And we will go to _The Barber of Seville_, for they are soon going to
give it again."

"Yes, we'll go," said Nastenka, "but better see something else and not
_The Barber of Seville_."

"Very well, something else. Of course that will be better, I did not
think----"

As we talked like this we walked along in a sort of delirium, a sort of
intoxication, as though we did not know what was happening to us. At one
moment we stopped and talked for a long time at the same place; then we
went on again, and goodness knows where we went; and again tears and
again laughter. All of a sudden Nastenka would want to go home, and I
would not dare to detain her but would want to see her to the house; we
set off, and in a quarter of an hour found ourselves at the embankment
by our seat. Then she would sigh, and tears would come into her eyes
again; I would turn chill with dismay.... But she would press my hand
and force me to walk, to talk, to chatter as before.

"It's time I was home at last; I think it must be very late," Nastenka
said at last. "We must give over being childish."

"Yes, Nastenka, only I shan't sleep to-night; I am not going home."

"I don't think I shall sleep either; only see me home."

"I should think so!"

"Only this time we really must get to the house."

"We must, we must."

"Honour bright? For you know one must go home some time!"

"Honour bright," I answered laughing.

"Well, come along!"

"Come along! Look at the sky, Nastenka. Look! To-morrow it will be a
lovely day; what a blue sky, what a moon! Look; that yellow cloud is
covering it now, look, look! No, it has passed by. Look, look!"

But Nastenka did not look at the cloud; she stood mute as though turned
to stone; a minute later she huddled timidly close up to me. Her hand
trembled in my hand; I looked at her. She pressed still more closely to
me.

At that moment a young man passed by us. He suddenly stopped, looked at
us intently, and then again took a few steps on. My heart began
throbbing.

"Who is it, Nastenka?" I said in an undertone.

"It's he," she answered in a whisper, huddling up to me, still more
closely, still more tremulously.... I could hardly stand on my feet.

"Nastenka, Nastenka! It's you!" I heard a voice behind us and at the
same moment the young man took several steps towards us.

My God, how she cried out! How she started! How she tore herself out of
my arms and rushed to meet him! I stood and looked at them, utterly
crushed. But she had hardly given him her hand, had hardly flung herself
into his arms, when she turned to me again, was beside me again in a
flash, and before I knew where I was she threw both arms round my neck
and gave me a warm, tender kiss. Then, without saying a word to me, she
rushed back to him again, took his hand, and drew him after her.

I stood a long time looking after them. At last the two vanished from my
sight.

MORNING

My night ended with the morning. It was a wet day. The rain was falling
and beating disconsolately upon my window pane; it was dark in the room
and grey outside. My head ached and I was giddy; fever was stealing over
my limbs.

"There's a letter for you, sir; the postman brought it," Matrona said
stooping over me.

"A letter? From whom?" I cried jumping up from my chair.

"I don't know, sir, better look--maybe it is written there whom it is
from."

I broke the seal. It was from her!

       *     *     *     *     *

"Oh, forgive me, forgive me! I beg you on my knees to forgive me! I
deceived you and myself. It was a dream, a mirage.... My heart aches for
you to-day; forgive me, forgive me!

"Don't blame me, for I have not changed to you in the least. I told you
that I would love you, I love you now, I more than love you. Oh, my God!
If only I could love you both at once! Oh, if only you were he!"

["Oh, if only he were you," echoed in my mind. I remembered your words,
Nastenka!]

"God knows what I would do for you now! I know that you are sad and
dreary. I have wounded you, but you know when one loves a wrong is soon
forgotten. And you love me.

"Thank you, yes, thank you for that love! For it will live in my memory
like a sweet dream which lingers long after awakening; for I shall
remember for ever that instant when you opened your heart to me like a
brother and so generously accepted the gift of my shattered heart to
care for it, nurse it, and heal it.... If you forgive me, the memory of
you will be exalted by a feeling of everlasting gratitude which will
never be effaced from my soul.... I will treasure that memory: I will be
true to it, I will not betray it, I will not betray my heart: it is too
constant. It returned so quickly yesterday to him to whom it has always
belonged.

"We shall meet, you will come to us, you will not leave us, you will be
for ever a friend, a brother to me. And when you see me you will give me
your hand ... yes? You will give it to me, you have forgiven me, haven't
you? You love me _as before_?

"Oh, love me, do not forsake me, because I love you so at this moment,
because I am worthy of your love, because I will deserve it ... my dear!
Next week I am to be married to him. He has come back in love, he has
never forgotten me. You will not be angry at my writing about him. But I
want to come and see you with him; you will like him, won't you?

          "Forgive me, remember and love your
                        "NASTENKA."

       *     *     *     *     *

I read that letter over and over again for a long time; tears gushed to
my eyes. At last it fell from my hands and I hid my face.

"Dearie! I say, dearie----" Matrona began.

"What is it, Matrona?"

"I have taken all the cobwebs off the ceiling; you can have a wedding or
give a party."

I looked at Matrona. She was still a hearty, _youngish_ old woman, but I
don't know why all at once I suddenly pictured her with lustreless eyes,
a wrinkled face, bent, decrepit.... I don't know why I suddenly pictured
my room grown old like Matrona. The walls and the floors looked
discoloured, everything seemed dingy; the spiders' webs were thicker
than ever. I don't know why, but when I looked out of the window it
seemed to me that the house opposite had grown old and dingy too, that
the stucco on the columns was peeling off and crumbling, that the
cornices were cracked and blackened, and that the walls, of a vivid deep
yellow, were patchy.

Either the sunbeams suddenly peeping out from the clouds for a moment
were hidden again behind a veil of rain, and everything had grown dingy
again before my eyes; or perhaps the whole vista of my future flashed
before me so sad and forbidding, and I saw myself just as I was now,
fifteen years hence, older, in the same room, just as solitary, with the
same Matrona grown no cleverer for those fifteen years.

But to imagine that I should bear you a grudge, Nastenka! That I should
cast a dark cloud over your serene, untroubled happiness; that by my
bitter reproaches I should cause distress to your heart, should poison
it with secret remorse and should force it to throb with anguish at the
moment of bliss; that I should crush a single one of those tender
blossoms which you have twined in your dark tresses when you go with him
to the altar.... Oh never, never! May your sky be clear, may your sweet
smile be bright and untroubled, and may you be blessed for that moment
of blissful happiness which you gave to another, lonely and grateful
heart!

My God, a whole moment of happiness! Is that too little for the whole of
a man's life?

  NOTES FROM UNDERGROUND[1]
  A NOVEL

  PART I
  UNDERGROUND

I

I am a sick man.... I am a spiteful man. I am an unattractive man. I
believe my liver is diseased. However, I know nothing at all about my
disease, and do not know for certain what ails me. I don't consult a
doctor for it, and never have, though I have a respect for medicine and
doctors. Besides, I am extremely superstitious, sufficiently so to
respect medicine, anyway (I am well-educated enough not to be
superstitious, but I am superstitious). No, I refuse to consult a doctor
from spite. That you probably will not understand. Well, I understand
it, though. Of course, I can't explain who it is precisely that I am
mortifying in this case by my spite: I am perfectly well aware that I
cannot "pay out" the doctors by not consulting them; I know better than
any one that by all this I am only injuring myself and no one else. But
still, if I don't consult a doctor it is from spite. My liver is bad,
well--let it get worse!

    [Footnote 1: The author of the diary and the diary itself
    are, of course, imaginary. Nevertheless it is clear that
    such persons as the writer of these notes not only may, but
    positively must, exist in our society, when we consider the
    circumstances in the midst of which our society is formed. I
    have tried to expose to the view of the public more
    distinctly than is commonly done, one of the characters of
    the recent past. He is one of the representatives of a
    generation still living. In this fragment, entitled
    "Underground," this person introduces himself and his views,
    and, as it were, tries to explain the causes owing to which
    he has made his appearance and was bound to make his
    appearance in our midst. In the second fragment there are
    added the actual notes of this person concerning certain
    events in his life.--AUTHOR'S NOTE.]

I have been going on like that for a long time--twenty years. Now I am
forty. I used to be in the government service, but am no longer. I was a
spiteful official. I was rude and took pleasure in being so. I did not
take bribes, you see, so I was bound to find a recompense in that, at
least. (A poor jest, but I will not scratch it out. I wrote it thinking
it would sound very witty; but now that I have seen myself that I only
wanted to show off in a despicable way, I will not scratch it out on
purpose!)

When petitioners used to come for information to the table at which I
sat, I used to grind my teeth at them, and felt intense enjoyment when I
succeeded in making anybody unhappy. I almost always did succeed. For
the most part they were all timid people--of course, they were
petitioners. But of the uppish ones there was one officer in particular
I could not endure. He simply would not be humble, and clanked his sword
in a disgusting way. I carried on a feud with him for eighteen months
over that sword. At last I got the better of him. He left off clanking
it. That happened in my youth, though.

But do you know, gentlemen, what was the chief point about my spite?
Why, the whole point, the real sting of it lay in the fact that
continually, even in the moment of the acutest spleen, I was inwardly
conscious with shame that I was not only not a spiteful but not even an
embittered man, that I was simply scaring sparrows at random and amusing
myself by it. I might foam at the mouth, but bring me a doll to play
with, give me a cup of tea with sugar in it, and maybe I should be
appeased. I might even be genuinely touched, though probably I should
grind my teeth at myself afterwards and lie awake at night with shame
for months after. That was my way.

I was lying when I said just now that I was a spiteful official. I was
lying from spite. I was simply amusing myself with the petitioners and
with the officer, and in reality I never could become spiteful. I was
conscious every moment in myself of many, very many elements absolutely
opposite to that. I felt them positively swarming in me, these opposite
elements. I knew that they had been swarming in me all my life and
craving some outlet from me, but I would not let them, would not let
them, purposely would not let them come out. They tormented me till I
was ashamed: they drove me to convulsions and--sickened me, at last, how
they sickened me! Now, are not you fancying, gentlemen, that I am
expressing remorse for something now, that I am asking your forgiveness
for something? I am sure you are fancying that.... However, I assure you
I do not care if you are....

It was not only that I could not become spiteful, I did not know how to
become anything: neither spiteful nor kind, neither a rascal nor an
honest man, neither a hero nor an insect. Now, I am living out my life
in my corner, taunting myself with the spiteful and useless consolation
that an intelligent man cannot become anything seriously, and it is only
the fool who becomes anything. Yes, a man in the nineteenth century must
and morally ought to be pre-eminently a characterless creature; a man of
character, an active man is pre-eminently a limited creature. That is my
conviction of forty years. I am forty years old now, and you know forty
years is a whole life-time; you know it is extreme old age. To live
longer than forty years is bad manners, is vulgar, immoral. Who does
live beyond forty? Answer that, sincerely and honestly. I will tell you
who do: fools and worthless fellows. I tell all old men that to their
face, all these venerable old men, all these silver-haired and reverend
seniors! I tell the whole world that to its face! I have a right to say
so, for I shall go on living to sixty myself. To seventy! To eighty!...
Stay, let me take breath....

You imagine no doubt, gentlemen, that I want to amuse you. You are
mistaken in that, too. I am by no means such a mirthful person as you
imagine, or as you may imagine; however, irritated by all this babble
(and I feel that you are irritated) you think fit to ask me who am
I--then my answer is, I am a collegiate assessor. I was in the service
that I might have something to eat (and solely for that reason), and
when last year a distant relation left me six thousand roubles in his
will I immediately retired from the service and settled down in my
corner. I used to live in this corner before, but now I have settled
down in it. My room is a wretched, horrid one in the outskirts of the
town. My servant is an old country-woman, ill-natured from stupidity,
and, moreover, there is always a nasty smell about her. I am told that
the Petersburg climate is bad for me, and that with my small means it is
very expensive to live in Petersburg. I know all that better than all
these sage and experienced counsellors and monitors.... But I am
remaining in Petersburg; I am not going away from Petersburg! I am not
going away because ... ech! Why, it is absolutely no matter whether I am
going away or not going away.

But what can a decent man speak of with most pleasure?

Answer: Of himself.

Well, so I will talk about myself.

II

I want now to tell you, gentlemen, whether you care to hear it or not,
why I could not even become an insect. I tell you solemnly, that I have
many times tried to become an insect. But I was not equal even to that.
I swear, gentlemen, that to be too conscious is an illness--a real
thorough-going illness. For man's everyday needs, it would have been
quite enough to have the ordinary human consciousness, that is, half or
a quarter of the amount which falls to the lot of a cultivated man of
our unhappy nineteenth century, especially one who has the fatal
ill-luck to inhabit Petersburg, the most theoretical and intentional
town on the whole terrestrial globe. (There are intentional and
unintentional towns.) It would have been quite enough, for instance, to
have the consciousness by which all so-called direct persons and men of
action live. I bet you think I am writing all this from affectation, to
be witty at the expense of men of action; and what is more, that from
ill-bred affectation, I am clanking a sword like my officer. But,
gentlemen, whoever can pride himself on his diseases and even swagger
over them?

Though, after all, every one does do that; people do pride themselves on
their diseases, and I do, may be, more than any one. We will not dispute
it; my contention was absurd. But yet I am firmly persuaded that a great
deal of consciousness, every sort of consciousness, in fact, is a
disease. I stick to that. Let us leave that, too, for a minute. Tell me
this: why does it happen that at the very, yes, at the very moments when
I am most capable of feeling every refinement of all that is "good and
beautiful," as they used to say at one time, it would, as though of
design, happen to me not only to feel but to do such ugly things, such
that.... Well, in short, actions that all, perhaps, commit; but which,
as though purposely, occurred to me at the very time when I was most
conscious that they ought not to be committed. The more conscious I was
of goodness and of all that was "good and beautiful," the more deeply I
sank into my mire and the more ready I was to sink in it altogether. But
the chief point was that all this was, as it were, not accidental in me,
but as though it were bound to be so. It was as though it were my most
normal condition, and not in the least disease or depravity, so that at
last all desire in me to struggle against this depravity passed. It
ended by my almost believing (perhaps actually believing) that this was
perhaps my normal condition. But at first, in the beginning, what
agonies I endured in that struggle! I did not believe it was the same
with other people, and all my life I hid this fact about myself as a
secret. I was ashamed (even now, perhaps, I am ashamed): I got to the
point of feeling a sort of secret abnormal, despicable enjoyment in
returning home to my corner on some disgusting Petersburg night, acutely
conscious that that day I had committed a loathsome action again, that
what was done could never be undone, and secretly, inwardly gnawing,
gnawing at myself for it, tearing and consuming myself till at last the
bitterness turned into a sort of shameful accursed sweetness, and at
last--into positive real enjoyment! Yes, into enjoyment, into enjoyment!
I insist upon that. I have spoken of this because I keep wanting to know
for a fact whether other people feel such enjoyment? I will explain; the
enjoyment was just from the too intense consciousness of one's own
degradation; it was from feeling oneself that one had reached the last
barrier, that it was horrible, but that it could not be otherwise; that
there was no escape for you; that you never could become a different
man; that even if time and faith were still left you to change into
something different you would most likely not wish to change; or if you
did wish to, even then you would do nothing; because perhaps in reality
there was nothing for you to change into.

And the worst of it was, and the root of it all, that it was all in
accord with the normal fundamental laws of over-acute consciousness, and
with the inertia that was the direct result of those laws, and that
consequently one was not only unable to change but could do absolutely
nothing. Thus it would follow, as the result of acute consciousness,
that one is not to blame in being a scoundrel; as though that were any
consolation to the scoundrel once he has come to realize that he
actually is a scoundrel. But enough.... Ech, I have talked a lot of
nonsense, but what have I explained? How is enjoyment in this to be
explained? But I will explain it. I will get to the bottom of it! That
is why I have taken up my pen....

I, for instance, have a great deal of _amour propre_. I am as suspicious
and prone to take offence as a humpback or a dwarf. But upon my word I
sometimes have had moments when if I had happened to be slapped in the
face I should, perhaps, have been positively glad of it. I say, in
earnest, that I should probably have been able to discover even in that
a peculiar sort of enjoyment--the enjoyment, of course, of despair; but
in despair there are the most intense enjoyments, especially when one is
very acutely conscious of the hopelessness of one's position. And when
one is slapped in the face--why then the consciousness of being rubbed
into a pulp would positively overwhelm one. The worst of it is, look at
it which way one will, it still turns out that I was always the most to
blame in everything. And what is most humiliating of all, to blame for
no fault of my own but, so to say, through the laws of nature. In the
first place, to blame because I am cleverer than any of the people
surrounding me. (I have always considered myself cleverer than any of
the people surrounding me, and sometimes, would you believe it, have
been positively ashamed of it. At any rate, I have all my life, as it
were, turned my eyes away and never could look people straight in the
face.) To blame, finally, because even if I had had magnanimity, I
should only have had more suffering from the sense of its uselessness. I
should certainly have never been able to do anything from being
magnanimous--neither to forgive, for my assailant would perhaps have
slapped me from the laws of nature, and one cannot forgive the laws of
nature; nor to forget, for even if it were owing to the laws of nature,
it is insulting all the same. Finally, even if I had wanted to be
anything but magnanimous, had desired on the contrary to revenge myself
on my assailant, I could not have revenged myself on any one for
anything because I should certainly never have made up my mind to do
anything, even if I had been able to. Why should I not have made up my
mind? About that in particular I want to say a few words.

III

With people who know how to revenge themselves and to stand up for
themselves in general, how is it done? Why, when they are possessed, let
us suppose, by the feeling of revenge, then for the time there is
nothing else but that feeling left in their whole being. Such a
gentleman simply dashes straight for his object like an infuriated bull
with its horns down, and nothing but a wall will stop him. (By the way:
facing the wall, such gentlemen--that is, the "direct" persons and men
of action--are genuinely nonplussed. For them a wall is not an evasion,
as for us people who think and consequently do nothing; it is not an
excuse for turning aside, an excuse for which we are always very glad,
though we scarcely believe in it ourselves, as a rule. No, they are
nonplussed in all sincerity. The wall has for them something
tranquillizing, morally soothing, final--maybe even something mysterious
... but of the wall later.)

Well, such a direct person I regard as the real normal man, as his
tender mother nature wished to see him when she graciously brought him
into being on the earth. I envy such a man till I am green in the face.
He is stupid. I am not disputing that, but perhaps the normal man should
be stupid, how do you know? Perhaps it is very beautiful, in fact. And I
am the more persuaded of that suspicion, if one can call it so, by the
fact that if you take, for instance, the antithesis of the normal man,
that is, the man of acute consciousness, who has come, of course, not
out of the lap of nature but out of a retort (this is almost mysticism,
gentlemen, but I suspect this, too), this retort-made man is sometimes
so nonplussed in the presence of his antithesis that with all his
exaggerated consciousness he genuinely thinks of himself as a mouse and
not a man. It may be an acutely conscious mouse, yet it is a mouse,
while the other is a man, and therefore, et cætera, et cætera. And the
worst of it is, he himself, his very own self, looks on himself as a
mouse; no one asks him to do so; and that is an important point. Now let
us look at this mouse in action. Let us suppose, for instance, that it
feels insulted, too (and it almost always does feel insulted), and wants
to revenge itself, too. There may even be a greater accumulation of
spite in it than in _l'homme de la nature et de la vérité_. The base and
nasty desire to vent that spite on its assailant rankles perhaps even
more nastily in it than in _l'homme de la nature et de la vérité_. For
through his innate stupidity the latter looks upon his revenge as
justice pure and simple; while in consequence of his acute consciousness
the mouse does not believe in the justice of it. To come at last to the
deed itself, to the very act of revenge. Apart from the one fundamental
nastiness the luckless mouse succeeds in creating around it so many
other nastinesses in the form of doubts and questions, adds to the one
question so many unsettled questions that there inevitably works up
around it a sort of fatal brew, a stinking mess, made up of its doubts,
emotions, and of the contempt spat upon it by the direct men of action
who stand solemnly about it as judges and arbitrators, laughing at it
till their healthy sides ache. Of course the only thing left for it is
to dismiss all that with a wave of its paw, and, with a smile of assumed
contempt in which it does not even itself believe, creep ignominiously
into its mouse-hole. There in its nasty, stinking, underground home our
insulted, crushed and ridiculed mouse promptly becomes absorbed in cold,
malignant and, above all, everlasting spite. For forty years together it
will remember its injury down to the smallest, most ignominious details,
and every time will add, of itself, details still more ignominious,
spitefully teasing and tormenting itself with its own imagination. It
will itself be ashamed of its imaginings, but yet it will recall it all,
it will go over and over every detail, it will invent unheard of things
against itself, pretending that those things might happen, and will
forgive nothing. Maybe it will begin to revenge itself, too, but, as it
were, piecemeal, in trivial ways, from behind the stove, incognito,
without believing either in its own right to vengeance, or in the
success of its revenge, knowing that from all its efforts at revenge it
will suffer a hundred times more than he on whom it revenges itself,
while he, I daresay, will not even scratch himself. On its deathbed it
will recall it all over again, with interest accumulated over all the
years and....

But it is just in that cold, abominable half despair, half belief, in
that conscious burying oneself alive for grief in the underworld for
forty years, in that acutely recognized and yet partly doubtful
hopelessness of one's position, in that hell of unsatisfied desires
turned inward, in that fever of oscillations, of resolutions determined
for ever and repented of again a minute later--that the savour of that
strange enjoyment of which I have spoken lies. It is so subtle, so
difficult of analysis, that persons who are a little limited, or even
simply persons of strong nerves, will not understand a single atom of
it. "Possibly," you will add on your own account with a grin, "people
will not understand it either who have never received a slap in the
face," and in that way you will politely hint to me that I, too,
perhaps, have had the experience of a slap in the face in my life, and
so I speak as one who knows. I bet that you are thinking that. But set
your minds at rest, gentlemen, I have not received a slap in the face,
though it is absolutely a matter of indifference to me what you may
think about it. Possibly, I even regret, myself, that I have given so
few slaps in the face during my life. But enough ... not another word on
that subject of such extreme interest to you.

I will continue calmly concerning persons with strong nerves who do not
understand a certain refinement of enjoyment. Though in certain
circumstances these gentlemen bellow their loudest like bulls, though
this, let us suppose, does them the greatest credit, yet, as I have said
already, confronted with the impossible they subside at once. The
impossible means the stone wall! What stone wall? Why, of course, the
laws of nature, the deductions of natural science, mathematics. As soon
as they prove to you, for instance, that you are descended from a
monkey, then it is no use scowling, accept it for a fact. When they
prove to you that in reality one drop of your own fat must be dearer to
you than a hundred thousand of your fellow creatures, and that this
conclusion is the final solution of all so-called virtues and duties and
all such prejudices and fancies, then you have just to accept it, there
is no help for it, for twice two is a law of mathematics. Just try
refuting it.

"Upon my word, they will shout at you, it is no use protesting: it is a
case of twice two makes four! Nature does not ask your permission, she
has nothing to do with your wishes, and whether you like her laws or
dislike them, you are bound to accept her as she is, and consequently
all her conclusions. A wall, you see, is a wall ... and so on, and so
on."

Merciful Heavens! but what do I care for the laws of nature and
arithmetic, when, for some reason I dislike those laws and the fact that
twice two makes four? Of course I cannot break through the wall by
battering my head against it if I really have not the strength to knock
it down, but I am not going to be reconciled to it simply because it is
a stone wall and I have not the strength.

As though such a stone wall really were a consolation, and really did
contain some word of conciliation, simply because it is as true as twice
two makes four. Oh, absurdity of absurdities! How much better it is to
understand it all, to recognize it all, all the impossibilities and the
stone wall; not to be reconciled to one of those impossibilities and
stone walls if it disgusts you to be reconciled to it; by the way of the
most inevitable, logical combinations to reach the most revolting
conclusions on the everlasting theme, that even for the stone wall you
are yourself somehow to blame, though again it is as clear as day you
are not to blame in the least, and therefore grinding your teeth in
silent impotence to sink into luxurious inertia, brooding on the fact
that there is no one even for you to feel vindictive against, that you
have not, and perhaps never will have, an object for your spite, that it
is a sleight of hand, a bit of juggling, a card-sharper's trick, that it
is simply a mess, no knowing what and no knowing who, but in spite of
all these uncertainties and jugglings, still there is an ache in you,
and the more you do not know, the worse the ache.

IV

"Ha, ha, ha! You will be finding enjoyment in toothache next," you cry,
with a laugh.

"Well? Even in toothache there is enjoyment," I answer. I had toothache
for a whole month and I know there is. In that case, of course, people
are not spiteful in silence, but moan; but they are not candid moans,
they are malignant moans, and the malignancy is the whole point. The
enjoyment of the sufferer finds expression in those moans; if he did not
feel enjoyment in them he would not moan. It is a good example,
gentlemen, and I will develop it. Those moans express in the first place
all the aimlessness of your pain, which is so humiliating to your
consciousness; the whole legal system of nature on which you spit
disdainfully, of course, but from which you suffer all the same while
she does not. They express the consciousness that you have no enemy to
punish, but that you have pain; the consciousness that in spite of all
possible Vagenheims you are in complete slavery to your teeth; that if
some one wishes it, your teeth will leave off aching, and if he does
not, they will go on aching another three months; and that finally if
you are still contumacious and still protest, all that is left you for
your own gratification is to thrash yourself or beat your wall with your
fist as hard as you can, and absolutely nothing more. Well, these mortal
insults, these jeers on the part of some one unknown, end at last in an
enjoyment which sometimes reaches the highest degree of voluptuousness.
I ask you, gentlemen, listen sometimes to the moans of an educated man
of the nineteenth century suffering from toothache, on the second or
third day of the attack, when he is beginning to moan, not as he moaned
on the first day, that is, not simply because he has toothache, not just
as any coarse peasant, but as a man affected by progress and European
civilization, a man who is "divorced from the soil and the national
elements," as they express it now-a-days. His moans become nasty,
disgustingly malignant, and go on for whole days and nights. And of
course he knows himself that he is doing himself no sort of good with
his moans; he knows better than any one that he is only lacerating and
harassing himself and others for nothing; he knows that even the
audience before whom he is making his efforts, and his whole family,
listen to him with loathing, do not put a ha'porth of faith in him, and
inwardly understand that he might moan differently, more simply, without
trills and flourishes, and that he is only amusing himself like that
from ill-humour, from malignancy. Well, in all these recognitions and
disgraces it is that there lies a voluptuous pleasure. As though he
would say: "I am worrying you, I am lacerating your hearts, I am keeping
every one in the house awake. Well, stay awake then, you, too, feel
every minute that I have toothache. I am not a hero to you now, as I
tried to seem before, but simply a nasty person, an impostor. Well, so
be it, then! I am very glad that you see through me. It is nasty for you
to hear my despicable moans: well, let it be nasty; here I will let you
have a nastier flourish in a minute...." You do not understand even now,
gentlemen? No, it seems our development and our consciousness must go
further to understand all the intricacies of this pleasure. You laugh?
Delighted. My jests, gentlemen, are of course in bad taste, jerky,
involved, lacking self-confidence. But of course that is because I do
not respect myself. Can a man of perception respect himself at all?

V

Come, can a man who attempts to find enjoyment in the very feeling of
his own degradation possibly have a spark of respect for himself? I am
not saying this now from any mawkish kind of remorse. And, indeed, I
could never endure saying, "Forgive me, Papa, I won't do it again," not
because I am incapable of saying that--on the contrary, perhaps just
because I have been too capable of it, and in what a way, too! As though
of design I used to get into trouble in cases when I was not to blame in
any way. That was the nastiest part of it. At the same time I was
genuinely touched and penitent, I used to shed tears and, of course,
deceived myself, though I was not acting in the least and there was a
sick feeling in my heart at the time.... For that one could not blame
even the laws of nature, though the laws of nature have continually all
my life offended me more than anything. It is loathsome to remember it
all, but it was loathsome even then. Of course, a minute or so later I
would realize wrathfully that it was all a lie, a revolting lie, an
affected lie, that is, all this penitence, this emotion, these vows of
reform. You will ask why did I worry myself with such antics: answer,
because it was very dull to sit with one's hands folded, and so one
began cutting capers. That is really it. Observe yourselves more
carefully, gentlemen, then you will understand that it is so. I invented
adventures for myself and made up a life, so as at least to live in some
way. How many times it has happened to me--well, for instance, to take
offence simply on purpose, for nothing; and one knows oneself, of
course, that one is offended at nothing, that one is putting it on, but
yet one brings oneself, at last to the point of being really offended.
All my life I have had an impulse to play such pranks, so that in the
end I could not control it in myself. Another time, twice, in fact, I
tried hard to be in love. I suffered, too, gentlemen, I assure you. In
the depth of my heart there was no faith in my suffering, only a faint
stir of mockery, but yet I did suffer, and in the real, orthodox way; I
was jealous, beside myself ... and it was all from _ennui_, gentlemen,
all from _ennui_; inertia overcame me. You know the direct, legitimate
fruit of consciousness is inertia, that is, conscious
sitting-with-the-hands-folded. I have referred to this already. I
repeat, I repeat with emphasis: all "direct" persons and men of action
are active just because they are stupid and limited. How explain that? I
will tell you: in consequence of their limitation they take immediate
and secondary causes for primary ones, and in that way persuade
themselves more quickly and easily than other people do that they have
found an infallible foundation for their activity, and their minds are
at ease and you know that is the chief thing. To begin to act, you know,
you must first have your mind completely at ease and no trace of doubt
left in it. Why, how am I, for example to set my mind at rest? Where are
the primary causes on which I am to build? Where are my foundations?
Where am I to get them from? I exercise myself in reflection, and
consequently with me every primary cause at once draws after itself
another still more primary, and so on to infinity. That is just the
essence of every sort of consciousness and reflection. It must be a case
of the laws of nature again. What is the result of it in the end? Why,
just the same. Remember I spoke just now of vengeance. (I am sure you
did not take it in.) I said that a man revenges himself because he sees
justice in it. Therefore he has found a primary cause, that is, justice.
And so he is at rest on all sides, and consequently he carries out his
revenge calmly and successfully, being persuaded that he is doing a just
and honest thing. But I see no justice in it, I find no sort of virtue
in it either, and consequently if I attempt to revenge myself, it is
only out of spite. Spite, of course, might overcome everything, all my
doubts, and so might serve quite successfully in place of a primary
cause, precisely because it is not a cause. But what is to be done if I
have not even spite (I began with that just now, you know)? In
consequence again of those accursed laws of consciousness, anger in me
is subject to chemical disintegration. You look into it, the object
flies off into air, your reasons evaporate, the criminal is not to be
found, the wrong becomes not a wrong but a phantom, something like the
toothache, for which no one is to blame, and consequently there is only
the same outlet left again--that is, to beat the wall as hard as you
can. So you give it up with a wave of the hand because you have not
found a fundamental cause. And try letting yourself be carried away by
your feelings, blindly, without reflection, without a primary cause,
repelling consciousness at least for a time; hate or love, if only not
to sit with your hands folded. The day after to-morrow, at the latest,
you will begin despising yourself for having knowingly deceived
yourself. Result: a soap-bubble and inertia. Oh, gentlemen, do you know,
perhaps I consider myself an intelligent man, only because all my life I
have been able neither to begin nor to finish anything. Granted I am a
babbler, a harmless vexatious babbler, like all of us. But what is to be
done if the direct and sole vocation of every intelligent man is babble,
that is, the intentional pouring of water through a sieve?

VI

Oh, if I had done nothing simply from laziness! Heavens, how I should
have respected myself, then. I should have respected myself because I
should at least have been capable of being lazy; there would at least
have been one quality, as it were, positive in me, in which I could have
believed myself. Question: What is he? Answer: A sluggard; how very
pleasant it would have been to hear that of oneself! It would mean that
I was positively defined, it would mean that there was something to say
about me. "Sluggard"--why, it is a calling and vocation, it is a career.
Do not jest, it is so. I should then be a member of the best club by
right, and should find my occupation in continually respecting myself. I
knew a gentleman who prided himself all his life on being a connoisseur
of Lafitte. He considered this as his positive virtue, and never doubted
himself. He died, not simply with a tranquil, but with a triumphant,
conscience, and he was quite right, too. Then I should have chosen a
career for myself, I should have been a sluggard and a glutton, not a
simple one, but, for instance, one with sympathies for everything good
and beautiful. How do you like that? I have long had visions of it. That
"good and beautiful" weighs heavily on my mind at forty. But that is at
forty; then--oh, then it would have been different! I should have found
for myself a form of activity in keeping with it, to be precise,
drinking to the health of everything "good and beautiful." I should have
snatched at every opportunity to drop a tear into my glass and then to
drain it to all that is "good and beautiful." I should then have turned
everything into the good and the beautiful; in the nastiest,
unquestionable trash, I should have sought out the good and the
beautiful. I should have exuded tears like a wet sponge. An artist, for
instance, paints a picture worthy of Gay. At once I drink to the health
of the artist who painted the picture worthy of Gay, because I love all
that is "good and beautiful." An author has written _As you will_: at
once I drink to the health of "any one you will" because I love all that
is "good and beautiful."

I should claim respect for doing so. I should persecute any one who
would not show me respect. I should live at ease, I should die with
dignity, why, it is charming, perfectly charming! And what a good round
belly I should have grown, what a treble chin I should have established,
what a ruby nose I should have coloured for myself, so that every one
would have said, looking at me: "Here is an asset! Here is something
real and solid!" And, say what you like, it is very agreeable to hear
such remarks about oneself in this negative age.

VII

But these are all golden dreams. Oh, tell me, who was it first
announced, who was it first proclaimed, that man only does nasty things
because he does not know his own interests; and that if he were
enlightened, if his eyes were opened to his real normal interests, man
would at once cease to do nasty things, would at once become good and
noble because, being enlightened and understanding his real advantage,
he would see his own advantage in the good and nothing else, and we all
know that not one man can, consciously, act against his own interests,
consequently, so to say, through necessity, he would begin doing good?
Oh, the babe! Oh, the pure, innocent child! Why, in the first place,
when in all these thousands of years has there been a time when man has
acted only from his own interest? What is to be done with the millions
of facts that bear witness that men, _consciously_, that is fully
understanding their real interests, have left them in the background and
have rushed headlong on another path, to meet peril and danger,
compelled to this course by nobody and by nothing, but, as it were,
simply disliking the beaten track, and have obstinately, wilfully,
struck out another difficult, absurd way, seeking it almost in the
darkness. So, I suppose, this obstinacy and perversity were pleasanter
to them than any advantage.... Advantage! What is advantage? And will
you take it upon yourself to define with perfect accuracy in what the
advantage of man consists? And what if it so happens that a man's
advantage, _sometimes_, not only may, but even must, consist in his
desiring in certain cases what is harmful to himself and not
advantageous? And if so, if there can be such a case, the whole
principle falls into dust. What do you think--are there such cases? You
laugh; laugh away, gentlemen, but only answer me: have man's advantages
been reckoned up with perfect certainty? Are there not some which not
only have not been included but cannot possibly be included under any
classification? You see, you gentlemen have, to the best of my
knowledge, taken your whole register of human advantages from the
averages of statistical figures and politico-economical formulas. Your
advantages are prosperity, wealth, freedom, peace--and so on, and so on.
So that the man who should, for instance, go openly and knowingly in
opposition to all that list would, to your thinking, and indeed mine,
too, of course, be an obscurantist or an absolute madman: would not he?
But, you know, this is what is surprising: why does it so happen that
all these statisticians, sages and lovers of humanity, when they reckon
up human advantages invariably leave out one? They don't even take it
into their reckoning in the form in which it should be taken, and the
whole reckoning depends upon that. It would be no great matter, they
would simply have to take it, this advantage, and add it to the list.
But the trouble is, that this strange advantage does not fall under any
classification and is not in place in any list. I have a friend for
instance.... Ech! gentlemen, but of course he is your friend, too; and
indeed there is no one, no one, to whom he is not a friend! When he
prepares for any undertaking this gentleman immediately explains to you,
elegantly and clearly, exactly how he must act in accordance with the
laws of reason and truth. What is more, he will talk to you with
excitement and passion of the true normal interests of man; with irony
he will upbraid the shortsighted fools who do not understand their own
interests, nor the true significance of virtue; and, within a quarter of
an hour, without any sudden outside provocation, but simply through
something inside him which is stronger than all his interests, he will
go off on quite a different tack--that is, act in direct opposition to
what he has just been saying about himself, in opposition to the laws of
reason, in opposition to his own advantage, in fact in opposition to
everything.... I warn you that my friend is a compound personality, and
therefore it is difficult to blame him as an individual. The fact is,
gentlemen, it seems there must really exist something that is dearer to
almost every man than his greatest advantages, or (not to be illogical)
there is a most advantageous advantage (the very one omitted of which we
spoke just now) which is more important and more advantageous than all
other advantages, for the sake of which a man if necessary is ready to
act in opposition to all laws; that is, in opposition to reason, honour,
peace, prosperity--in fact, in opposition to all those excellent and
useful things if only he can attain that fundamental, most advantageous
advantage which is dearer to him than all. "Yes, but it's advantage all
the same" you will retort. But excuse me, I'll make the point clear, and
it is not a case of playing upon words. What matters is, that this
advantage is remarkable from the very fact that it breaks down all our
classifications, and continually shatters every system constructed by
lovers of mankind for the benefit of mankind. In fact, it upsets
everything. But before I mention this advantage to you, I want to
compromise myself personally, and therefore I boldly declare that all
these fine systems, all these theories for explaining to mankind their
real normal interests, in order that inevitably striving to pursue these
interests they may at once become good and noble--are, in my opinion, so
far, mere logical exercises! Yes, logical exercises. Why, to maintain
this theory of the regeneration of mankind by means of the pursuit of
his own advantage is to my mind almost the same thing as ... as to
affirm, for instance, following Buckle, that through civilization
mankind becomes softer, and consequently less bloodthirsty and less
fitted for warfare. Logically it does seem to follow from his arguments.
But man has such a predilection for systems and abstract deductions that
he is ready to distort the truth intentionally, he is ready to deny the
evidence of his senses only to justify his logic. I take this example
because it is the most glaring instance of it. Only look about you:
blood is being spilt in streams, and in the merriest way, as though it
were champagne. Take the whole of the nineteenth century in which Buckle
lived. Take Napoleon--the Great and also the present one. Take North
America--the eternal union. Take the farce of Schleswig-Holstein.... And
what is it that civilization softens in us? The only gain of
civilization for mankind is the greater capacity for variety of
sensations--and absolutely nothing more. And through the development of
this many-sidedness man may come to finding enjoyment in bloodshed. In
fact, this has already happened to him. Have you noticed that it is the
most civilized gentlemen who have been the subtlest slaughterers, to
whom the Attilas and Stenka Razins could not hold a candle, and if they
are not so conspicuous as the Attilas and Stenka Razins it is simply
because they are so often met with, are so ordinary and have become so
familiar to us. In any case civilization has made mankind if not more
bloodthirsty, at least more vilely, more loathsomely bloodthirsty. In
old days he saw justice in bloodshed and with his conscience at peace
exterminated those he thought proper. Now we do think bloodshed
abominable and yet we engage in this abomination, and with more energy
than ever. Which is worse? Decide that for yourselves. They say that
Cleopatra (excuse an instance from Roman history) was fond of sticking
gold pins into her slave-girls' breasts and derived gratification from
their screams and writhings. You will say that that was in the
comparatively barbarous times; that these are barbarous times too,
because also, comparatively speaking, pins are stuck in even now; that
though man has now learned to see more clearly than in barbarous ages,
he is still far from having learnt to act as reason and science would
dictate. But yet you are fully convinced that he will be sure to learn
when he gets rid of certain old bad habits, and when common sense and
science have completely re-educated human nature and turned it in a
normal direction. You are confident that then man will cease from
_intentional_ error and will, so to say, be compelled not to want to set
his will against his normal interests. That is not all; then, you say,
science itself will teach man (though to my mind it's a superfluous
luxury) that he never has really had any caprice or will of his own, and
that he himself is something of the nature of a piano-key or the stop of
an organ, and that there are, besides, things called the laws of nature;
so that everything he does is not done by his willing it, but is done of
itself, by the laws of nature. Consequently we have only to discover
these laws of nature, and man will no longer have to answer for his
actions and life will become exceedingly easy for him. All human actions
will then, of course, be tabulated according to these laws,
mathematically, like tables of logarithms up to 108,000, and entered in
an index; or, better still, there would be published certain edifying
works of the nature of encyclopædic lexicons, in which everything will
be so clearly calculated and explained that there will be no more
incidents or adventures in the world.

Then--this is all what you say--new economic relations will be
established, all ready-made and worked out with mathematical exactitude,
so that every possible question will vanish in the twinkling of an eye,
simply because every possible answer to it will be provided. Then the
"Palace of Crystal" will be built. Then.... In fact, those will be
halcyon days. Of course there is no guaranteeing (this is my comment)
that it will not be, for instance, frightfully dull then (for what will
one have to do when everything will be calculated and tabulated?), but on
the other hand everything will be extraordinarily rational. Of course
boredom may lead you to anything. It is boredom sets one sticking golden
pins into people, but all that would not matter. What is bad (this is my
comment again) is that I dare say people will be thankful for the gold
pins then. Man is stupid, you know, phenomenally stupid; or rather he is
not at all stupid, but he is so ungrateful that you could not find
another like him in all creation. I, for instance, would not be in the
least surprised if all of a sudden, _à propos_ of nothing, in the midst
of general prosperity a gentleman with an ignoble, or rather with a
reactionary and ironical, countenance were to arise and, putting his
arms akimbo, say to us all: "I say, gentlemen, hadn't we better kick
over the whole show and scatter rationalism to the winds, simply to send
these logarithms to the devil, and to enable us to live once more at our
own sweet foolish will!" That again would not matter; but what is
annoying is that he would be sure to find followers--such is the nature
of man. And all that for the most foolish reason, which, one would
think, was hardly worth mentioning: that is, that man everywhere and at
all times, whoever he may be, has preferred to act as he chose and not
in the least as his reason and advantage dictated. And one may choose
what is contrary to one's own interests, and sometimes one _positively
ought_ (that is my idea). One's own free unfettered choice, one's own
caprice, however wild it may be, one's own fancy worked up at times to
frenzy--is that very "most advantageous advantage" which we have
overlooked, which comes under no classification and against which all
systems and theories are continually being shattered to atoms. And how
do these wiseacres know that man wants a normal, a virtuous choice? What
has made them conceive that man must want a rationally advantageous
choice? What man wants is simply _independent_ choice, whatever that
independence may cost and wherever it may lead. And choice, of course,
the devil only knows what choice....

VIII

"Ha! ha! ha! But you know there is no such thing as choice in reality,
say what you like," you will interpose with a chuckle. "Science has
succeeded in so far analysing man that we know already that choice and
what is called freedom of will is nothing else than----"

Stay, gentlemen, I meant to begin with that myself. I confess, I was
rather frightened. I was just going to say that the devil only knows
what choice depends on, and that perhaps that was a very good thing, but
I remembered the teaching of science ... and pulled myself up. And here
you have begun upon it. Indeed, if there really is some day discovered a
formula for all our desires and caprices--that is, an explanation of
what they depend upon, by what laws they arise, how they develop, what
they are aiming at in one case and in another and so on, that is a real
mathematical formula--then, most likely, man will at once cease to feel
desire, indeed, he will be certain to. For who would want to choose by
rule? Besides, he will at once be transformed from a human being into an
organ-stop or something of the sort; for what is a man without desires,
without free will and without choice, if not a stop in an organ? What do
you think? Let us reckon the chances--can such a thing happen or not?

"H'm!" you decide. "Our choice is usually mistaken from a false view of
our advantage. We sometimes choose absolute nonsense because in our
foolishness we see in that nonsense the easiest means for attaining a
supposed advantage. But when all that is explained and worked out on
paper (which is perfectly possible, for it is contemptible and senseless
to suppose that some laws of nature man will never understand), then
certainly so-called desires will no longer exist. For if a desire should
come into conflict with reason we shall then reason and not desire,
because it will be impossible retaining our reason to be _senseless_ in
our desires, and in that way knowingly act against reason and desire to
injure ourselves. And as all choice and reasoning can be really
calculated--because there will some day be discovered the laws of our
so-called free will--so, joking apart, there may one day be something
like a table constructed of them, so that we really shall choose in
accordance with it. If, for instance, some day they calculate and prove
to me that I made a long nose at some one because I could not help
making a long nose at him and that I had to do it in that particular
way, what _freedom_ is left me, especially if I am a learned man and
have taken my degree somewhere? Then I should be able to calculate my
whole life for thirty years beforehand. In short, if this could be
arranged there would be nothing left for us to do; anyway, we should
have to understand that. And, in fact, we ought unwearyingly to repeat
to ourselves that at such and such a time and in such and such
circumstances nature does not ask our leave; that we have got to take
her as she is and not fashion her to suit our fancy, and if we really
aspire to formulas and tables of rules, and well, even ... to the
chemical retort, there's no help for it, we must accept the retort too,
or else it will be accepted without our consent...."

Yes, but here I come to a stop! Gentlemen, you must excuse me for being
over-philosophical; it's the result of forty years underground! Allow me
to indulge my fancy. You see, gentlemen, reason is an excellent thing,
there's no disputing that, but reason is nothing but reason and
satisfies only the rational side of man's nature, while will is a
manifestation of the whole life, that is, of the whole human life
including reason and all the impulses. And although our life, in this
manifestation of it, is often worthless, yet it is life and not simply
extracting square roots. Here I, for instance, quite naturally want to
live, in order to satisfy all my capacities for life, and not simply my
capacity for reasoning, that is, not simply one twentieth of my capacity
for life. What does reason know? Reason only knows what it has succeeded
in learning (some things, perhaps, it will never learn; this is a poor
comfort, but why not say so frankly?) and human nature acts as a whole,
with everything that is in it, consciously or unconsciously, and, even
if it goes wrong, it lives. I suspect, gentlemen, that you are looking
at me with compassion; you tell me again that an enlightened and
developed man, such, in short, as the future man will be, cannot
consciously desire anything disadvantageous to himself, that that can be
proved mathematically. I thoroughly agree, it can--by mathematics. But I
repeat for the hundredth time, there is one case, one only, when man may
consciously, purposely, desire what is injurious to himself, what is
stupid, very stupid--simply in order to have the right to desire for
himself even what is very stupid and not to be bound by an obligation to
desire only what is sensible. Of course, this very stupid thing, this
caprice of ours, may be in reality, gentlemen, more advantageous for us
than anything else on earth, especially in certain cases. And in
particular it may be more advantageous than any advantage even when it
does us obvious harm, and contradicts the soundest conclusions of our
reason concerning our advantage--for in any circumstances it preserves
for us what is most precious and most important--that is, our
personality, our individuality. Some, you see, maintain that this really
is the most precious thing for mankind; choice can, of course, if it
chooses, be in agreement with reason; and especially if this be not
abused but kept within bounds. It is profitable and sometimes even
praiseworthy. But very often, and even most often, choice is utterly and
stubbornly opposed to reason ... and ... and ... do you know that that,
too, is profitable, sometimes even praiseworthy? Gentlemen, let us
suppose that man is not stupid. (Indeed one cannot refuse to suppose
that, if only from the one consideration, that, if man is stupid, then
who is wise?) But if he is not stupid, he is monstrously ungrateful!
Phenomenally ungrateful. In fact, I believe that the best definition of
man is the ungrateful biped. But that is not all, that is not his worst
defect; his worst defect is his perpetual moral obliquity,
perpetual--from the days of the Flood to the Schleswig-Holstein period.
Moral obliquity and consequently lack of good sense; for it has long
been accepted that lack of good sense is due to no other cause than
moral obliquity. Put it to the test and cast your eyes upon the history
of mankind. What will you see? Is it a grand spectacle? Grand, if you
like. Take the Colossus of Rhodes, for instance, that's worth something.
With good reason Mr. Anaevsky testifies of it that some say that it is
the work of man's hands, while others maintain that it has been created
by nature herself. Is it many-coloured? May be it is many-coloured, too:
if one takes the dress uniforms, military and civilian, of all peoples
in all ages--that alone is worth something, and if you take the undress
uniforms you will never get to the end of it; no historian would be
equal to the job. Is it monotonous? May be it's monotonous too: it's
fighting and fighting; they are fighting now, they fought first and they
fought last--you will admit, that it is almost too monotonous. In short,
one may say anything about the history of the world--anything that might
enter the most disordered imagination. The only thing one can't say is
that it's rational. The very word sticks in one's throat. And, indeed,
this is the odd thing that is continually happening: there are
continually turning up in life moral and rational persons, sages and
lovers of humanity who make it their object to live all their lives as
morally and rationally as possible, to be, so to speak, a light to their
neighbours simply in order to show them that it is possible to live
morally and rationally in this world. And yet we all know that those
very people sooner or later have been false to themselves, playing some
queer trick, often a most unseemly one. Now I ask you: what can be
expected of man since he is a being endowed with such strange qualities?
Shower upon him every earthly blessing, drown him in a sea of happiness,
so that nothing but bubbles of bliss can be seen on the surface; give
him economic prosperity, such that he should have nothing else to do but
sleep, eat cakes and busy himself with the continuation of his species,
and even then out of sheer ingratitude, sheer spite, man would play you
some nasty trick. He would even risk his cakes and would deliberately
desire the most fatal rubbish, the most uneconomical absurdity, simply
to introduce into all this positive good sense his fatal fantastic
element. It is just his fantastic dreams, his vulgar folly that he will
desire to retain, simply in order to prove to himself--as though that
were so necessary--that men still are men and not the keys of a piano,
which the laws of nature threaten to control so completely that soon one
will be able to desire nothing but by the calendar. And that is not all:
even if man really were nothing but a piano-key, even if this were
proved to him by natural science and mathematics, even then he would not
become reasonable, but would purposely do something perverse out of
simple ingratitude, simply to gain his point. And if he does not find
means he will contrive destruction and chaos, will contrive sufferings
of all sorts, only to gain his point! He will launch a curse upon the
world, and as only man can curse (it is his privilege, the primary
distinction between him and other animals), may be by his curse alone he
will attain his object--that is, convince himself that he is a man and
not a piano-key! If you say that all this, too, can be calculated and
tabulated--chaos and darkness and curses, so that the mere possibility
of calculating it all beforehand would stop it all, and reason would
reassert itself, then man would purposely go mad in order to be rid of
reason and gain his point! I believe in it, I answer for it, for the
whole work of man really seems to consist in nothing but proving to
himself every minute that he is a man and not a piano-key! It may be at
the cost of his skin, it may be by cannibalism! And this being so, can
one help being tempted to rejoice that it has not yet come off, and that
desire still depends on something we don't know?

You will scream at me (that is, if you condescend to do so) that no one
is touching my free will, that all they are concerned with is that my
will should of itself, of its own free will, coincide with my own normal
interests, with the laws of nature and arithmetic.

Good Heavens, gentlemen, what sort of free will is left when we come to
tabulation and arithmetic, when it will all be a case of twice two make
four? Twice two makes four without my will. As if free will meant that!

IX

Gentlemen, I am joking, and I know myself that my jokes are not
brilliant, but you know one can't take everything as a joke. I am,
perhaps, jesting against the grain. Gentlemen, I am tormented by
questions; answer them for me. You, for instance, want to cure men of
their old habits and reform their will in accordance with science and
good sense. But how do you know, not only that it is possible, but also
that it is _desirable_, to reform man in that way? And what leads you to
the conclusion that man's inclinations _need_ reforming? In short, how
do you know that such a reformation will be a benefit to man? And to go
to the root of the matter, why are you so positively convinced that not
to act against his real normal interests guaranteed by the conclusions
of reason and arithmetic is certainly always advantageous for man and
must always be a law for mankind? So far, you know, this is only your
supposition. It may be the law of logic, but not the law of humanity.
You think, gentlemen, perhaps that I am mad? Allow me to defend myself.
I agree that man is pre-eminently a creative animal, predestined to
strive consciously for an object and to engage in engineering--that is,
incessantly and eternally to make new roads, _wherever they may lead_.
But the reason why he wants sometimes to go off at a tangent may just be
that he is _predestined_ to make the road, and perhaps, too, that
however stupid the "direct" practical man may be, the thought sometimes
will occur to him that the road almost always does lead _somewhere_, and
that the destination it leads to is less important than the process of
making it, and that the chief thing is to save the well-conducted child
from despising engineering, and so giving way to the fatal idleness,
which, as we all know, is the mother of all the vices. Man likes to make
roads and to create, that is a fact beyond dispute. But why has he such
a passionate love for destruction and chaos also? Tell me that! But on
that point I want to say a couple of words myself. May it not be that he
loves chaos and destruction (there can be no disputing that he does
sometimes love it) because he is instinctively afraid of attaining his
object and completing the edifice he is constructing? Who knows, perhaps
he only loves that edifice from a distance, and is by no means in love
with it at close quarters; perhaps he only loves building it and does
not want to live in it, but will leave it, when completed, for the use
of _les animaux domestiques_--such as the ants, the sheep, and so on.
Now the ants have quite a different taste. They have a marvellous
edifice of that pattern which endures for ever--the ant-heap.

With the ant-heap the respectable race of ants began and with the
ant-heap they will probably end, which does the greatest credit to their
perseverance and good sense. But man is a frivolous and incongruous
creature, and perhaps, like a chess player, loves the process of the
game, not the end of it. And who knows (there is no saying with
certainty), perhaps the only goal on earth to which mankind is striving
lies in this incessant process of attaining, in other words, in life
itself, and not in the thing to be attained, which must always be
expressed as a formula, as positive as twice two makes four, and such
positiveness is not life, gentlemen, but is the beginning of death.
Anyway, man has always been afraid of this mathematical certainty, and I
am afraid of it now. Granted that man does nothing but seek that
mathematical certainty, he traverses oceans, sacrifices his life in the
quest, but to succeed, really to find it, he dreads, I assure you. He
feels that when he has found it there will be nothing for him to look
for. When workmen have finished their work they do at least receive
their pay, they go to the tavern, then they are taken to the
police-station--and there is occupation for a week. But where can man
go? Anyway, one can observe a certain awkwardness about him when he has
attained such objects. He loves the process of attaining, but does not
quite like to have attained, and that, of course, is very absurd. In
fact, man is a comical creature; there seems to be a kind of jest in it
all. But yet mathematical certainty is, after all, something
insufferable. Twice two makes four seems to me simply a piece of
insolence. Twice two makes four is a pert coxcomb who stands with arms
akimbo barring your path and spitting. I admit that twice two makes four
is an excellent thing, but if we are to give everything its due, twice
two makes five is sometimes a very charming thing too.

And why are you so firmly, so triumphantly, convinced that only the
normal and the positive--in other words, only what is conducive to
welfare--is for the advantage of man? Is not reason in error as regards
advantage? Does not man, perhaps, love something besides well-being?
Perhaps he is just as fond of suffering? Perhaps suffering is just as
great a benefit to him as well-being? Man is sometimes extraordinarily,
passionately, in love with suffering, and that is a fact. There is no
need to appeal to universal history to prove that; only ask yourself, if
you are a man and have lived at all. As far as my personal opinion is
concerned, to care only for well-being seems to me positively ill-bred.
Whether it's good or bad, it is sometimes very pleasant, too, to smash
things. I hold no brief for suffering nor for well-being either. I am
standing for ... my caprice, and for its being guaranteed to me when
necessary. Suffering would be out of place in vaudevilles, for instance;
I know that. In the "Palace of Crystal" it is unthinkable; suffering
means doubt, negation, and what would be the good of a "palace of
crystal" if there could be any doubt about it? And yet I think man will
never renounce real suffering, that is, destruction and chaos. Why,
suffering is the sole origin of consciousness. Though I did lay it down
at the beginning that consciousness is the greatest misfortune for man,
yet I know man prizes it and would not give it up for any satisfaction.
Consciousness, for instance, is infinitely superior to twice two makes
four. Once you have mathematical certainty there is nothing left to do
or to understand. There will be nothing left but to bottle up your five
senses and plunge into contemplation. While if you stick to
consciousness, even though the same result is attained, you can at least
flog yourself at times, and that will, at any rate, liven you up.
Reactionary as it is, corporal punishment is better than nothing.

X

You believe in a palace of crystal that can never be destroyed--a palace
at which one will not be able to put out one's tongue or make a long
nose on the sly. And perhaps that is just why I am afraid of this
edifice, that it is of crystal and can never be destroyed and that one
cannot put one's tongue out at it even on the sly.

You see, if it were not a palace, but a hen-house, I might creep into it
to avoid getting wet, and yet I would not call the hen-house a palace
out of gratitude to it for keeping me dry. You laugh and say that in
such circumstances a hen-house is as good as a mansion. Yes, I answer,
if one had to live simply to keep out of the rain.

But what is to be done if I have taken it into my head that that is not
the only object in life, and that if one must live one had better live
in a mansion. That is my choice, my desire. You will only eradicate it
when you have changed my preference. Well, do change it, allure me with
something else, give me another ideal. But meanwhile I will not take a
hen-house for a mansion. The palace of crystal may be an idle dream, it
may be that it is inconsistent with the laws of nature and that I have
invented it only through my own stupidity, through the old-fashioned
irrational habits of my generation. But what does it matter to me that
it is inconsistent? That makes no difference since it exists in my
desires, or rather exists as long as my desires exist. Perhaps you are
laughing again? Laugh away; I will put up with any mockery rather than
pretend that I am satisfied when I am hungry. I know, anyway, that I
will not be put off with a compromise, with a recurring zero, simply
because it is consistent with the laws of nature and actually exists. I
will not accept as the crown of my desires a block of buildings with
tenements for the poor on a lease of a thousand years, and perhaps with
a sign-board of a dentist hanging out. Destroy my desires, eradicate my
ideals, show me something better, and I will follow you. You will say,
perhaps, that it is not worth your trouble; but in that case I can give
you the same answer. We are discussing things seriously; but if you
won't deign to give me your attention, I will drop your acquaintance. I
can retreat into my underground hole.

But while I am alive and have desires I would rather my hand were
withered off than bring one brick to such a building! Don't remind me
that I have just rejected the palace of crystal for the sole reason that
one cannot put out one's tongue at it. I did not say because I am so
fond of putting my tongue out. Perhaps the thing I resented was, that of
all your edifices there has not been one at which one could not put out
one's tongue. On the contrary, I would let my tongue be cut off out of
gratitude if things could be so arranged that I should lose all desire
to put it out. It is not my fault that things cannot be so arranged, and
that one must be satisfied with model flats. Then why am I made with
such desires? Can I have been constructed simply in order to come to the
conclusion that all my construction is a cheat? Can this be my whole
purpose? I do not believe it.

But do you know what: I am convinced that we underground folk ought to
be kept on a curb. Though we may sit forty years underground without
speaking, when we do come out into the light of day and break out we
talk and talk and talk....

XI

The long and the short of it is, gentlemen, that it is better to do
nothing! Better conscious inertia! And so hurrah for underground! Though
I have said that I envy the normal man to the last drop of my bile, yet
I should not care to be in his place such as he is now (though I shall
not cease envying him). No, no; anyway the underground life is more
advantageous. There, at any rate, one can.... Oh, but even now I am
lying! I am lying because I know myself that it is not underground that
is better, but something different, quite different, for which I am
thirsting, but which I cannot find! Damn underground!

I will tell you another thing that would be better, and that is, if I
myself believed in anything of what I have just written. I swear to you,
gentlemen, there is not one thing, not one word of what I have written
that I really believe. That is, I believe it, perhaps, but at the same
time I feel and suspect that I am lying like a cobbler.

"Then why have you written all this?" you will say to me.

"I ought to put you underground for forty years without anything to do
and then come to you in your cellar, to find out what stage you have
reached! How can a man be left with nothing to do for forty years?"

"Isn't that shameful, isn't that humiliating?" you will say, perhaps,
wagging your heads contemptuously. "You thirst for life and try to
settle the problems of life by a logical tangle. And how persistent, how
insolent are your sallies, and at the same time what a scare you are in!
You talk nonsense and are pleased with it; you say impudent things and
are in continual alarm and apologizing for them. You declare that you
are afraid of nothing and at the same time try to ingratiate yourself in
our good opinion. You declare that you are gnashing your teeth and at
the same time you try to be witty so as to amuse us. You know that your
witticisms are not witty, but you are evidently well satisfied with
their literary value. You may, perhaps, have really suffered, but you
have no respect for your own suffering. You may have sincerity, but you
have no modesty; out of the pettiest vanity you expose your sincerity to
publicity and ignominy. You doubtlessly mean to say something, but hide
your last word through fear, because you have not the resolution to
utter it, and only have a cowardly impudence. You boast of
consciousness, but you are not sure of your ground, for though your mind
works, yet your heart is darkened and corrupt, and you cannot have a
full, genuine consciousness without a pure heart. And how intrusive you
are, how you insist and grimace! Lies, lies, lies!"

Of course I have myself made up all the things you say. That, too, is
from underground. I have been for forty years listening to you through a
crack under the floor. I have invented them myself, there was nothing
else I could invent. It is no wonder that I have learned it by heart and
it has taken a literary form....

But can you really be so credulous as to think that I will print all
this and give it to you to read too? And another problem: why do I call
you "gentlemen," why do I address you as though you really were my
readers? Such confessions as I intend to make are never printed nor
given to other people to read. Anyway, I am not strong-minded enough for
that, and I don't see why I should be. But you see a fancy has occurred
to me and I want to realize it at all costs. Let me explain.

Every man has reminiscences which he would not tell to every one, but
only to his friends. He has other matters in his mind which he would not
reveal even to his friends, but only to himself, and that in secret. But
there are other things which a man is afraid to tell even to himself,
and every decent man has a number of such things stored away in his
mind. The more decent he is, the greater the number of such things in
his mind. Anyway, I have only lately determined to remember some of my
early adventures. Till now I have always avoided them, even with a
certain uneasiness. Now, when I am not only recalling them, but have
actually decided to write an account of them, I want to try the
experiment whether one can, even with oneself, be perfectly open and not
take fright at the whole truth. I will observe, in parenthesis, that
Heine says that a true autobiography is almost an impossibility, and
that man is bound to lie about himself. He considers that Rousseau
certainly told lies about himself in his confessions, and even
intentionally lied, out of vanity. I am convinced that Heine is right; I
quite understand how sometimes one may, out of sheer vanity, attribute
regular crimes to oneself, and indeed I can very well conceive that kind
of vanity. But Heine judged of people who made their confessions to the
public. I write only for myself, and I wish to declare once and for all
that if I write as though I were addressing readers, that is simply
because it is easier for me to write in that form. It is a form, an
empty form--I shall never have readers. I have made this plain
already....

I don't wish to be hampered by any restrictions in the compilation of my
notes. I shall not attempt any system or method. I will jot things down
as I remember them.

But here, perhaps, some one will catch at the word and ask me: if you
really don't reckon on readers, why do you make such compacts with
yourself--and on paper too--that is, that you won't attempt any system
or method, that you jot things down as you remember them, and so on, and
so on? Why are you explaining? Why do you apologize?

Well, there it is, I answer.

There is a whole psychology in all this, though. Perhaps it is simply
that I am a coward. And perhaps that I purposely imagine an audience
before me in order that I may be more dignified while I write. There are
perhaps thousands of reasons. Again, what is my object precisely in
writing? If it is not for the benefit of the public why should I not
simply recall these incidents in my own mind without putting them on
paper?

Quite so; but yet it is more imposing on paper. There is something more
impressive in it; I shall be better able to criticize myself and improve
my style. Besides, I shall perhaps obtain actual relief from writing.
To-day, for instance, I am particularly oppressed by one memory of a
distant past. It came back vividly to my mind a few days ago, and has
remained haunting me like an annoying tune that one cannot get rid of.
And yet I must get rid of it somehow. I have hundreds of such
reminiscences; but at times some one stands out from the hundred and
oppresses me. For some reason I believe that if I write it down I should
get rid of it. Why not try?

Besides, I am bored, and I never have anything to do. Writing will be a
sort of work. They say work makes man kind-hearted and honest. Well,
here is a chance for me, anyway.

Snow is falling to-day, yellow and dingy. It fell yesterday, too, and a
few days ago. I fancy it is the wet snow that has reminded me of that
incident which I cannot shake off now. And so let it be a story _à
propos_ of the falling snow.

  PART II

  À PROPOS OF THE WET SNOW

  When from dark error's subjugation
  My words of passionate exhortation
    Had wrenched thy fainting spirit free;
  And writhing prone in thine affliction
  Thou didst recall with malediction
    The vice that had encompassed thee:
  And when thy slumbering conscience, fretting
    By recollection's torturing flame,
  Thou didst reveal the hideous setting
    Of thy life's current ere I came:
  When suddenly I saw thee sicken,
    And weeping, hide thine anguished face,
  Revolted, maddened, horror-stricken,
    At memories of foul disgrace.

                   NEKRASSOV (_translated by Juliet Soskice_).

I

At that time I was only twenty-four. My life was even then gloomy,
ill-regulated, and as solitary as that of a savage. I made friends with
no one and positively avoided talking, and buried myself more and more
in my hole. At work in the office I never looked at any one, and I was
perfectly well aware that my companions looked upon me, not only as a
queer fellow, but even looked upon me--I always fancied this--with a
sort of loathing. I sometimes wondered why it was that nobody except me
fancied that he was looked upon with aversion? One of the clerks had a
most repulsive, pock-marked face, which looked positively villainous. I
believe I should not have dared to look at any one with such an
unsightly countenance. Another had such a very dirty old uniform that
there was an unpleasant odour in his proximity. Yet not one of these
gentlemen showed the slightest self-consciousness--either about their
clothes or their countenance or their character in any way. Neither of
them ever imagined that they were looked at with repulsion; if they had
imagined it they would not have minded--so long as their superiors did
not look at them in that way. It is clear to me now that, owing to my
unbounded vanity and to the high standard I set for myself, I often
looked at myself with furious discontent, which verged on loathing, and
so I inwardly attributed the same feeling to every one. I hated my face,
for instance: I thought it disgusting, and even suspected that there was
something base in my expression, and so every day when I turned up at
the office I tried to behave as independently as possible, and to assume
a lofty expression, so that I might not be suspected of being abject.
"My face may be ugly," I thought, "but let it be lofty, expressive, and,
above all, _extremely_ intelligent." But I was positively and painfully
certain that it was impossible for my countenance ever to express those
qualities. And what was worst of all, I thought it actually stupid
looking, and I would have been quite satisfied if I could have looked
intelligent. In fact, I would even have put up with looking base if, at
the same time, my face could have been thought strikingly intelligent.

Of course, I hated my fellow clerks one and all, and I despised them
all, yet at the same time I was, as it were, afraid of them. In fact, it
happened at times that I thought more highly of them than of myself. It
somehow happened quite suddenly that I alternated between despising them
and thinking them superior to myself. A cultivated and decent man cannot
be vain without setting a fearfully high standard for himself, and
without despising and almost hating himself at certain moments. But
whether I despised them or thought them superior I dropped my eyes
almost every time I met any one. I even made experiments whether I could
face so and so's looking at me, and I was always the first to drop my
eyes. This worried me to distraction. I had a sickly dread, too, of
being ridiculous, and so had a slavish passion for the conventional in
everything external. I loved to fall into the common rut, and had a
whole-hearted terror of any kind of eccentricity in myself. But how
could I live up to it? I was morbidly sensitive, as a man of our age
should be. They were all stupid, and as like one another as so many
sheep. Perhaps I was the only one in the office who fancied that I was a
coward and a slave, and I fancied it just because I was more highly
developed. But it was not only that I fancied it, it really was so. I
was a coward and a slave. I say this without the slightest
embarrassment. Every decent man of our age must be a coward and a slave.
That is his normal condition. Of that I am firmly persuaded. He is made
and constructed to that very end. And not only at the present time owing
to some casual circumstances, but always, at all times, a decent man is
bound to be a coward and a slave. It is the law of nature for all decent
people all over the earth. If any one of them happens to be valiant
about something, he need not be comforted nor carried away by that; he
would show the white feather just the same before something else. That
is how it invariably and inevitably ends. Only donkeys and mules are
valiant, and they only till they are pushed up to the wall. It is not
worth while to pay attention to them for they really are of no
consequence.

Another circumstance, too, worried me in those days: that there was no
one like me and I was unlike any one else. "I am alone and they are
_every one_," I thought--and pondered.

From that it is evident that I was still a youngster.

The very opposite sometimes happened. It was loathsome sometimes to go
to the office; things reached such a point that I often came home ill.
But all at once, _à propos_ of nothing, there would come a phase of
scepticism and indifference (everything happened in phases to me), and I
would laugh myself at my intolerance and fastidiousness, I would
reproach myself with being _romantic_. At one time I was unwilling to
speak to any one, while at other times I would not only talk, but go to
the length of contemplating making friends with them. All my
fastidiousness would suddenly, for no rhyme or reason, vanish. Who
knows, perhaps I never had really had it, and it had simply been
affected, and got out of books. I have not decided that question even
now. Once I quite made friends with them, visited their homes, played
preference, drank vodka, talked of promotions.... But here let me make a
digression.

We Russians, speaking generally, have never had those foolish
transcendental "romantics"--German, and still more French--on whom
nothing produces any effect; if there were an earthquake, if all France
perished at the barricades, they would still be the same, they would not
even have the decency to affect a change, but would still go on singing
their transcendental songs to the hour of their death, because they are
fools. We, in Russia, have no fools; that is well known. That is what
distinguishes us from foreign lands. Consequently these transcendental
natures are not found amongst us in their pure form. The idea that they
are is due to our "realistic" journalists and critics of that day,
always on the look out for Kostanzhoglos and Uncle Pyotr Ivanitchs and
foolishly accepting them as our ideal; they have slandered our
romantics, taking them for the same transcendental sort as in Germany or
France. On the contrary, the characteristics of our "romantics" are
absolutely and directly opposed to the transcendental European type, and
no European standard can be applied to them. (Allow me to make use of
this word "romantic"--an old-fashioned and much respected word which has
done good service and is familiar to all). The characteristics of our
romantic are to understand everything, _to see everything and to see it
often incomparably more clearly than our most realistic minds see it_;
to refuse to accept anyone or anything, but at the same time not to
despise anything; to give way, to yield, from policy; never to lose
sight of a useful practical object (such as rent-free quarters at the
government expense, pensions, decorations), to keep their eye on that
object through all the enthusiasms and volumes of lyrical poems, and at
the same time to preserve "the good and the beautiful" inviolate within
them to the hour of their death, and to preserve themselves also,
incidentally, like some precious jewel wrapped in cotton wool if only
for the benefit of "the good and the beautiful." Our "romantic" is a man
of great breadth and the greatest rogue of all our rogues, I assure
you.... I can assure you from experience, indeed. Of course, that is, if
he is intelligent. But what am I saying! The romantic is always
intelligent, and I only meant to observe that although we have had
foolish romantics they don't count, and they were only so because in the
flower of their youth they degenerated into Germans, and to preserve
their precious jewel more comfortably, settled somewhere out there--by
preference in Weimar or the Black Forest.

I, for instance, genuinely despised my official work and did not openly
abuse it simply because I was in it myself and got a salary for it.
Anyway, take note, I did not openly abuse it. Our romantic would rather
go out of his mind--a thing, however, which very rarely happens--than
take to open abuse, unless he had some other career in view; and he is
never kicked out. At most, they would take him to the lunatic asylum as
"the King of Spain" if he should go very mad. But it is only the thin,
fair people who go out of their minds in Russia. Innumerable "romantics"
attain later in life to considerable rank in the service. Their
many-sidedness is remarkable! And what a faculty they have for the most
contradictory sensations! I was comforted by this thought even in those
days, and I am of the same opinion now. That is why there are so many
"broad natures" among us who never lose their ideal even in the depths
of degradation; and though they never stir a finger for their ideal,
though they are arrant thieves and knaves, yet they tearfully cherish
their first ideal and are extraordinarily honest at heart. Yes, it is
only among us that the most incorrigible rogue can be absolutely and
loftily honest at heart without in the least ceasing to be a rogue. I
repeat, our romantics, frequently, become such accomplished rascals (I
use the term "rascals" affectionately), suddenly display such a sense of
reality and practical knowledge that their bewildered superiors and the
public generally can only ejaculate in amazement.

Their many-sidedness is really amazing, and goodness knows what it may
develop into later on, and what the future has in store for us. It is
not a poor material! I do not say this from any foolish or boastful
patriotism. But I feel sure that you are again imagining that I am
joking. Or perhaps it's just the contrary, and you are convinced that I
really think so. Anyway, gentlemen, I shall welcome both views as an
honour and a special favour. And do forgive my digression.

I did not, of course, maintain friendly relations with my comrades and
soon was at loggerheads with them, and in my youth and inexperience I
even gave up bowing to them, as though I had cut off all relations.
That, however, only happened to me once. As a rule, I was always alone.

In the first place I spent most of my time at home, reading. I tried to
stifle all that was continually seething within me by means of external
impressions. And the only external means I had was reading. Reading, of
course, was a great help--exciting me, giving me pleasure and pain. But
at times it bored me fearfully. One longed for movement in spite of
everything, and I plunged all at once into dark, underground, loathsome
vice of the pettiest kind. My wretched passions were acute, smarting,
from my continual, sickly irritability. I had hysterical impulses, with
tears and convulsions. I had no resource except reading, that is, there
was nothing in my surroundings which I could respect and which attracted
me. I was overwhelmed with depression, too; I had an hysterical craving
for incongruity and for contrast, and so I took to vice. I have not said
all this to justify myself.... But, no! I am lying. I did want to
justify myself. I make that little observation for my own benefit,
gentlemen. I don't want to lie. I vowed to myself I would not.

And so, furtively, timidly, in solitude, at night, I indulged in filthy
vice, with a feeling of shame which never deserted me, even at the most
loathsome moments, and which at such moments nearly made me curse.
Already even then I had my underground world in my soul. I was fearfully
afraid of being seen, of being met, of being recognized. I visited
various obscure haunts.

One night as I was passing a tavern I saw through a lighted window some
gentlemen fighting with billiard cues, and saw one of them thrown out of
window. At other times I should have felt very much disgusted, but I was
in such a mood at the time, that I actually envied the gentleman thrown
out of window--and I envied him so much that I even went into the tavern
and into the billiard-room. "Perhaps," I thought, "I'll have a fight,
too, and they'll throw me out of window."

I was not drunk--but what is one to do--depression will drive a man to
such a pitch of hysteria? But nothing happened. It seemed that I was not
even equal to being thrown out of window and I went away without having
my fight.

An officer put me in my place from the first moment.

I was standing by the billiard-table and in my ignorance blocking up the
way, and he wanted to pass; he took me by the shoulders and without a
word--without a warning or explanation--moved me from where I was
standing to another spot and passed by as though he had not noticed me.
I could have forgiven blows, but I could not forgive his having moved me
without noticing me.

Devil knows what I would have given for a real regular quarrel--a more
decent, a more _literary_ one, so to speak. I had been treated like a
fly. This officer was over six foot, while I was a spindly little
fellow. But the quarrel was in my hands. I had only to protest and I
certainly would have been thrown out of the window. But I changed my
mind and preferred to beat a resentful retreat.

I went out of the tavern straight home, confused and troubled, and the
next night I went out again with the same lewd intentions, still more
furtively, abjectly and miserably than before, as it were, with tears in
my eyes--but still I did go out again. Don't imagine, though, it was
cowardice made me slink away from the officer: I never have been a
coward at heart, though I have always been a coward in action. Don't be
in a hurry to laugh--I assure you I can explain it all.

Oh, if only that officer had been one of the sort who would consent to
fight a duel! But no, he was one of those gentlemen (alas, long
extinct!) who preferred fighting with cues or, like Gogol's Lieutenant
Pirogov, appealing to the police. They did not fight duels and would
have thought a duel with a civilian like me an utterly unseemly
procedure in any case--and they looked upon the duel altogether as
something impossible, something free-thinking and French. But they were
quite ready to bully, especially when they were over six foot.

I did not slink away through cowardice, but through an unbounded vanity.
I was afraid not of his six foot, not of getting a sound thrashing and
being thrown out of the window; I should have had physical courage
enough, I assure you; but I had not the moral courage. What I was afraid
of was that every one present, from the insolent marker down to the
lowest little stinking, pimply clerk in a greasy collar, would jeer at
me and fail to understand when I began to protest and to address them in
literary language. For of the point of honour--not of honour, but of the
point of honour (_point d'honneur_)--one cannot speak among us except in
literary language. You can't allude to the "point of honour" in ordinary
language. I was fully convinced (the sense of reality, in spite of all
my romanticism!) that they would all simply split their sides with
laughter, and that the officer would not simply beat me, that is,
without insulting me, but would certainly prod me in the back with his
knee, kick me round the billiard table, and only then perhaps have pity
and drop me out of the window.

Of course, this trivial incident could not with me end in that. I often
met that officer afterwards in the street and noticed him very
carefully. I am not quite sure whether he recognized me, I imagine not;
I judge from certain signs. But I--I stared at him with spite and hatred
and so it went on ... for several years! My resentment grew even deeper
with years. At first I began making stealthy inquiries about this
officer. It was difficult for me to do so, for I knew no one. But one
day I heard some one shout his surname in the street as I was following
him at a distance, as though I were tied to him--and so I learnt his
surname. Another time I followed him to his flat, and for ten kopecks
learned from the porter where he lived, on which storey, whether he
lived alone or with others, and so on--in fact, everything one could
learn from a porter. One morning, though I had never tried my hand with
the pen, it suddenly occurred to me to write a satire on this officer in
the form of a novel which would unmask his villainy. I wrote the novel
with relish. I did unmask his villainy, I even exaggerated it; at first
I so altered his surname that it could easily be recognized, but on
second thoughts I changed it, and sent the story to the
_Otetchestvenniya Zapiski_. But at that time such attacks were not the
fashion and my story was not printed. That was a great vexation to me.

Sometimes I was positively choked with resentment. At last I determined
to challenge my enemy to a duel. I composed a splendid, charming letter
to him, imploring him to apologize to me, and hinting rather plainly at
a duel in case of refusal. The letter was so composed that if the
officer had had the least understanding of the good and the beautiful he
would certainly have flung himself on my neck and have offered me his
friendship. And how fine that would have been! How we should have got on
together! "He could have shielded me with his higher rank, while I could
have improved his mind with my culture, and, well ... my ideas, and all
sorts of things might have happened." Only fancy, this was two years
after his insult to me, and my challenge would have been a ridiculous
anachronism, in spite of all the ingenuity of my letter in disguising
and explaining away the anachronism. But, thank God (to this day I thank
the Almighty with tears in my eyes) I did not send the letter to him.
Cold shivers run down my back when I think of what might have happened
if I had sent it.

And all at once I revenged myself in the simplest way, by a stroke of
genius! A brilliant thought suddenly dawned upon me. Sometimes on
holidays I used to stroll along the sunny side of the Nevsky about four
o'clock in the afternoon. Though it was hardly a stroll so much as a
series of innumerable miseries, humiliations and resentments; but no
doubt that was just what I wanted. I used to wriggle along in a most
unseemly fashion, like an eel, continually moving aside to make way for
generals, for officers of the guards and the hussars, or for ladies. At
such minutes there used to be a convulsive twinge at my heart, and I
used to feel hot all down my back at the mere thought of the
wretchedness of my attire, of the wretchedness and abjectness of my
little scurrying figure. This was a regular martyrdom, a continual,
intolerable humiliation at the thought, which passed into an incessant
and direct sensation, that I was a mere fly in the eyes of all this
world, a nasty, disgusting fly--more intelligent, more highly developed,
more refined in feeling than any of them, of course--but a fly that was
continually making way for every one, insulted and injured by every one.
Why I inflicted this torture upon myself, why I went to the Nevsky, I
don't know. I felt simply drawn there at every possible opportunity.

Already then I began to experience a rush of the enjoyment of which I
spoke in the first chapter. After my affair with the officer I felt even
more drawn there than before: it was on the Nevsky that I met him most
frequently, there I could admire him. He, too, went there chiefly on
holidays. He, too, turned out of his path for generals and persons of
high rank, and he, too, wriggled between them like an eel; but people,
like me, or even better dressed like me, he simply walked over; he made
straight for them as though there was nothing but empty space before
him, and never, under any circumstances, turned aside. I gloated over my
resentment watching him and ... always resentfully made way for him. It
exasperated me that even in the street I could not be on an even footing
with him.

"Why must you invariably be the first to move aside?" I kept asking
myself in hysterical rage, waking up sometimes at three o'clock in the
morning. "Why is it you and not he? There's no regulation about it;
there's no written law. Let the making way be equal as it usually is
when refined people meet: he moves half-way and you move half-way; you
pass with mutual respect."

But that never happened, and I always moved aside, while he did not even
notice my making way for him. And lo and behold a bright idea dawned
upon me! "What," I thought, "if I meet him and don't move on one side?
What if I don't move aside on purpose, even if I knock up against him?
How would that be?" This audacious idea took such a hold on me that it
gave me no peace. I was dreaming of it continually, horribly, and I
purposely went more frequently to the Nevsky in order to picture more
vividly how I should do it when I did do it. I was delighted. This
intention seemed to me more and more practical and possible.

"Of course I shall not really push him," I thought, already more
good-natured in my joy. "I will simply not turn aside, will run up
against him, not very violently, but just shouldering each other--just
as much as decency permits. I will push against him just as much as he
pushes against me." At last I made up my mind completely. But my
preparations took a great deal of time. To begin with, when I carried
out my plan I should need to be looking rather more decent, and so I had
to think of my get-up. "In case of emergency, if, for instance, there
were any sort of public scandal (and the public there is of the most
_recherché_: the Countess walks there; Prince D. walks there; all the
literary world is there), I must be well dressed; that inspires respect
and of itself puts us on an equal footing in the eyes of society."

With this object I asked for some of my salary in advance, and bought at
Tchurkin's a pair of black gloves and a decent hat. Black gloves seemed
to me both more dignified and _bon ton_ than the lemon-coloured ones
which I had contemplated at first. "The colour is too gaudy, it looks as
though one were trying to be conspicuous," and I did not take the
lemon-coloured ones. I had got ready long beforehand a good shirt, with
white bone studs; my overcoat was the only thing that held me back. The
coat in itself was a very good one, it kept me warm; but it was wadded
and it had a raccoon collar which was the height of vulgarity. I had to
change the collar at any sacrifice, and to have a beaver one like an
officer's. For this purpose I began visiting the Gostiny Dvor and after
several attempts I pitched upon a piece of cheap German beaver. Though
these German beavers soon grow shabby and look wretched, yet at first
they look exceedingly well, and I only needed it for one occasion. I
asked the price; even so, it was too expensive. After thinking it over
thoroughly I decided to sell my raccoon collar. The rest of the money--a
considerable sum for me, I decided to borrow from Anton Antonitch
Syetotchkin, my immediate superior, an unassuming person, though grave
and judicious. He never lent money to any one, but I had, on entering
the service, been specially recommended to him by an important personage
who had got me my berth. I was horribly worried. To borrow from Anton
Antonitch seemed to me monstrous and shameful. I did not sleep for two
or three nights. Indeed, I did not sleep well at that time, I was in a
fever; I had a vague sinking at my heart or else a sudden throbbing,
throbbing, throbbing! Anton Antonitch was surprised at first, then he
frowned, then he reflected, and did after all lend me the money,
receiving from me a written authorization to take from my salary a
fortnight later the sum that he had lent me.

In this way everything was at last ready. The handsome beaver replaced
the mean-looking raccoon, and I began by degrees to get to work. It
would never have done to act off-hand, at random; the plan had to be
carried out skilfully, by degrees. But I must confess that after many
efforts I began to despair: we simply could not run into each other. I
made every preparation, I was quite determined--it seemed as though we
should run into one another directly--and before I knew what I was doing
I had stepped aside for him again and he had passed without noticing me.
I even prayed as I approached him that God would grant me determination.
One time I had made up my mind thoroughly, but it ended in my stumbling
and falling at his feet because at the very last instant when I was six
inches from him my courage failed me. He very calmly stepped over me,
while I flew on one side like a ball. That night I was ill again,
feverish and delirious.

And suddenly it ended most happily. The night before I had made up my
mind not to carry out my fatal plan and to abandon it all, and with that
object I went to the Nevsky for the last time, just to see how I would
abandon it all. Suddenly, three paces from my enemy, I unexpectedly made
up my mind--I closed my eyes, and we ran full tilt, shoulder to
shoulder, against one another! I did not budge an inch and passed him on
a perfectly equal footing! He did not even look round and pretended not
to notice it; but he was only pretending, I am convinced of that. I am
convinced of that to this day! Of course, I got the worst of it--he was
stronger, but that was not the point. The point was that I had attained
my object, I had kept up my dignity, I had not yielded a step, and had
put myself publicly on an equal social footing with him. I returned home
feeling that I was fully avenged for everything. I was delighted. I was
triumphant and sang Italian arias. Of course, I will not describe to you
what happened to me three days later; if you have read my first chapter
you can guess that for yourself. The officer was afterwards transferred;
I have not seen him now for fourteen years. What is the dear fellow
doing now? Whom is he walking over?

II

But the period of my dissipation would end and I always felt very sick
afterwards. It was followed by remorse--I tried to drive it away: I felt
too sick. By degrees, however, I grew used to that too. I grew used to
everything, or rather I voluntarily resigned myself to enduring it. But
I had a means of escape that reconciled everything--that was to find
refuge in "the good and the beautiful," in dreams, of course. I was a
terrible dreamer, I would dream for three months on end, tucked away in
my corner, and you may believe me that at those moments I had no
resemblance to the gentleman who, in the perturbation of his chicken
heart, put a collar of German beaver on his great coat. I suddenly
became a hero. I would not have admitted my six-foot lieutenant even if
he had called on me. I could not even picture him before me then. What
were my dreams and how I could satisfy myself with them--it is hard to
say now, but at the time I was satisfied with them. Though, indeed, even
now, I am to some extent satisfied with them. Dreams were particularly
sweet and vivid after a spell of dissipation; they came with remorse and
with tears, with curses and transports. There were moments of such
positive intoxication, of such happiness, that there was not the
faintest trace of irony within me, on my honour. I had faith, hope,
love. I believed blindly at such times that by some miracle, by some
external circumstance, all this would suddenly open out, expand; that
suddenly a vista of suitable activity--beneficent, good, and, above all,
_ready made_ (what sort of activity I had no idea, but the great thing
was that it should be all ready for me)--would rise up before me--and I
should come out into the light of day, almost riding a white horse and
crowned with laurel. Anything but the foremost place I could not
conceive for myself, and for that very reason I quite contentedly
occupied the lowest in reality. Either to be a hero or to grovel in the
mud--there was nothing between. That was my ruin, for when I was in the
mud I comforted myself with the thought that at other times I was a
hero, and the hero was a cloak for the mud: for an ordinary man it was
shameful to defile himself, but a hero was too lofty to be utterly
defiled, and so he might defile himself. It is worth noting that these
attacks of the "good and the beautiful" visited me even during the
period of dissipation and just at the times when I was touching the
bottom. They came in separate spurts, as though reminding me of
themselves, but did not banish the dissipation by their appearance. On
the contrary, they seemed to add a zest to it by contrast, and were only
sufficiently present to serve as an appetizing sauce. That sauce was
made up of contradictions and sufferings, of agonizing inward analysis
and all these pangs and pin-pricks gave a certain piquancy, even a
significance to my dissipation--in fact, completely answered the purpose
of an appetizing sauce. There was a certain depth of meaning in it. And
I could hardly have resigned myself to the simple, vulgar, direct
debauchery of a clerk and have endured all the filthiness of it. What
could have allured me about it then and have drawn me at night into the
street? No, I had a lofty way of getting out of it all.

And what loving-kindness, oh Lord, what loving-kindness I felt at times
in those dreams of mine! in those "flights into the good and the
beautiful;" though it was fantastic love, though it was never applied to
anything human in reality, yet there was so much of this love that one
did not feel afterwards even the impulse to apply it in reality; that
would have been superfluous. Everything, however, passed satisfactorily
by a lazy and fascinating transition into the sphere of art, that is,
into the beautiful forms of life, lying ready, largely stolen from the
poets and novelists and adapted to all sorts of needs and uses. I, for
instance, was triumphant over every one; every one, of course, was in
dust and ashes, and was forced spontaneously to recognize my
superiority, and I forgave them all. I was a poet and a grand gentleman,
I fell in love; I came in for countless millions and immediately devoted
them to humanity, and at the same time I confessed before all the people
my shameful deeds, which, of course, were not merely shameful, but had
in them much that was "good and beautiful," something in the Manfred
style. Every one would kiss me and weep (what idiots they would be if
they did not), while I should go barefoot and hungry preaching new ideas
and fighting a victorious Austerlitz against the obscurantists. Then the
band would play a march, an amnesty would be declared, the Pope would
agree to retire from Rome to Brazil; then there would be a ball for the
whole of Italy at the Villa Borghese on the shores of the Lake of Como,
the Lake of Como being for that purpose transferred to the neighbourhood
of Rome; then would come a scene in the bushes, and so on, and so on--as
though you did not know all about it? You will say that it is vulgar and
contemptible to drag all this into public after all the tears and
transports which I have myself confessed. But why is it contemptible?
Can you imagine that I am ashamed of it all, and that it was stupider
than anything in your life, gentlemen? And I can assure you that some of
these fancies were by no means badly composed.... It did not all happen
on the shores of Lake Como. And yet you are right--it really is vulgar
and contemptible. And most contemptible of all it is that now I am
attempting to justify myself to you. And even more contemptible than
that is my making this remark now. But that's enough, or there will be
no end to it: each step will be more contemptible than the last....

I could never stand more than three months of dreaming at a time without
feeling an irresistible desire to plunge into society. To plunge into
society meant to visit my superior at the office, Anton Antonitch
Syetotchkin. He was the only permanent acquaintance I have had in my
life, and wonder at the fact myself now. But I only went to see him when
that phase came over me, and when my dreams had reached such a point of
bliss that it became essential at once to embrace my fellows and all
mankind; and for that purpose I needed, at least, one human being,
actually existing. I had to call on Anton Antonitch, however, on
Tuesday--his at-home day; so I had always to time my passionate desire
to embrace humanity so that it might fall on a Tuesday.

This Anton Antonitch lived on the fourth storey in a house in Five
Corners, in four low-pitched rooms, one smaller than the other, of a
particularly frugal and sallow appearance. He had two daughters and
their aunt, who used to pour out the tea. Of the daughters one was
thirteen and another fourteen, they both had snub noses, and I was
awfully shy of them because they were always whispering and giggling
together. The master of the house usually sat in his study on a leather
couch in front of the table with some grey-headed gentleman, usually a
colleague from our office or some other department. I never saw more
than two or three visitors there, always the same. They talked about the
excise duty; about business in the senate, about salaries, about
promotions, about His Excellency, and the best means of pleasing him,
and so on. I had the patience to sit like a fool beside these people for
four hours at a stretch, listening to them without knowing what to say
to them or venturing to say a word. I became stupified, several times I
felt myself perspiring, I was overcome by a sort of paralysis; but this
was pleasant and good for me. On returning home I deferred for a time my
desire to embrace all mankind.

I had however one other acquaintance of a sort, Simonov, who was an old
schoolfellow. I had a number of schoolfellows indeed in Petersburg, but
I did not associate with them and had even given up nodding to them in
the street. I believe I had transferred into the department I was in
simply to avoid their company and to cut off all connection with my
hateful childhood. Curses on that school and all those terrible years of
penal servitude! In short, I parted from my schoolfellows as soon as I
got out into the world. There were two or three left to whom I nodded in
the street. One of them was Simonov, who had been in no way
distinguished at school, was of a quiet and equable disposition; but I
discovered in him a certain independence of character and even honesty.
I don't even suppose that he was particularly stupid. I had at one time
spent some rather soulful moments with him, but these had not lasted
long and had somehow been suddenly clouded over. He was evidently
uncomfortable at these reminiscences, and was, I fancy, always afraid
that I might take up the same tone again. I suspected that he had an
aversion for me, but still I went on going to see him, not being quite
certain of it.

And so on one occasion, unable to endure my solitude and knowing that as
it was Thursday Anton Antonitch's door would be closed, I thought of
Simonov. Climbing up to his fourth storey I was thinking that the man
disliked me and that it was a mistake to go and see him. But as it
always happened that such reflections impelled me, as though purposely,
to put myself into a false position, I went in. It was almost a year
since I had last seen Simonov.

III

I found two of my old schoolfellows with him. They seemed to be
discussing an important matter. All of them took scarcely any notice of
my entrance, which was strange, for I had not met them for years.
Evidently they looked upon me as something on the level of a common fly.
I had not been treated like that even at school, though they all hated
me. I knew, of course, that they must despise me now for my lack of
success in the service, and for my having let myself sink so low, going
about badly dressed and so on--which seemed to them a sign of my
incapacity and insignificance. But I had not expected such contempt.
Simonov was positively surprised at my turning up. Even in old days he
had always seemed surprised at my coming. All this disconcerted me: I
sat down, feeling rather miserable, and began listening to what they
were saying.

They were engaged in warm and earnest conversation about a farewell
dinner which they wanted to arrange for the next day to a comrade of
theirs called Zverkov, an officer in the army, who was going away to a
distant province. This Zverkov had been all the time at school with me
too. I had begun to hate him particularly in the upper forms. In the
lower forms he had simply been a pretty, playful boy whom everybody
liked. I had hated him, however, even in the lower forms, just because
he was a pretty and playful boy. He was always bad at his lessons and
got worse and worse as he went on; however, he left with a good
certificate, as he had powerful interest. During his last year at school
he came in for an estate of two hundred serfs, and as almost all of us
were poor he took up a swaggering tone among us. He was vulgar in the
extreme, but at the same time he was a good-natured fellow, even in his
swaggering. In spite of superficial, fantastic and sham notions of
honour and dignity, all but very few of us positively grovelled before
Zverkov, and the more so the more he swaggered. And it was not from any
interested motive that they grovelled, but simply because he had been
favoured by the gifts of nature. Moreover, it was, as it were, an
accepted idea among us that Zverkov was a specialist in regard to tact
and the social graces. This last fact particularly infuriated me. I
hated the abrupt self-confident tone of his voice, his admiration of his
own witticisms, which were often frightfully stupid, though he was bold
in his language; I hated his handsome, but stupid face (for which I
would, however, have gladly exchanged my intelligent one), and the
free-and-easy military manners in fashion in the "'forties." I hated the
way in which he used to talk of his future conquests of women (he did
not venture to begin his attack upon women until he had the epaulettes
of an officer, and was looking forward to them with impatience), and
boasted of the duels he would constantly be fighting. I remember how I,
invariably so taciturn, suddenly fastened upon Zverkov, when one day
talking at a leisure moment with his schoolfellows of his future
relations with the fair sex, and growing as sportive as a puppy in the
sun, he all at once declared that he would not leave a single village
girl on his estate unnoticed, that that was his _droit de seigneur_, and
that if the peasants dared to protest he would have them all flogged and
double the tax on them, the bearded rascals. Our servile rabble
applauded, but I attacked him, not from compassion for the girls and
their fathers, but simply because they were applauding such an insect. I
got the better of him on that occasion, but though Zverkov was stupid he
was lively and impudent, and so laughed it off, and in such a way that
my victory was not really complete: the laugh was on his side. He got
the better of me on several occasions afterwards, but without malice,
jestingly, casually. I remained angrily and contemptuously silent and
would not answer him. When we left school he made advances to me; I did
not rebuff them, for I was flattered, but we soon parted and quite
naturally. Afterwards I heard of his barrack-room success as a
lieutenant, and of the fast life he was leading. Then there came other
rumours--of his successes in the service. By then he had taken to
cutting me in the street, and I suspected that he was afraid of
compromising himself by greeting a personage as insignificant as me. I
saw him once in the theatre, in the third tier of boxes. By then he was
wearing shoulder-straps. He was twisting and twirling about,
ingratiating himself with the daughters of an ancient General. In three
years he had gone off considerably, though he was still rather handsome
and adroit. One could see that by the time he was thirty he would be
corpulent. So it was to this Zverkov that my schoolfellows were going to
give a dinner on his departure. They had kept up with him for those
three years, though privately they did not consider themselves on an
equal footing with him, I am convinced of that.

Of Simonov's two visitors, one was Ferfitchkin, a Russianized German--a
little fellow with the face of a monkey, a blockhead who was always
deriding every one, a very bitter enemy of mine from our days in the
lower forms--a vulgar, impudent, swaggering fellow, who affected a most
sensitive feeling of personal honour, though, of course, he was a
wretched little coward at heart. He was one of those worshippers of
Zverkov who made up to the latter from interested motives, and often
borrowed money from him. Simonov's other visitor, Trudolyubov, was a
person in no way remarkable--a tall young fellow, in the army, with a
cold face, fairly honest, though he worshipped success of every sort,
and was only capable of thinking of promotion. He was some sort of
distant relation of Zverkov's, and this, foolish as it seems, gave him a
certain importance among us. He always thought me of no consequence
whatever; his behaviour to me, though not quite courteous, was
tolerable.

"Well, with seven roubles each," said Trudolyubov, "twenty-one roubles
between the three of us, we ought to be able to get a good dinner.
Zverkov, of course, won't pay."

"Of course not, since we are inviting him," Simonov decided.

"Can you imagine," Ferfitchkin interrupted hotly and conceitedly, like
some insolent flunkey boasting of his master the General's decorations,
"can you imagine that Zverkov will let us pay alone? He will accept from
delicacy, but he will order half a dozen bottles of champagne."

"Do we want half a dozen for the four of us?" observed Trudolyubov,
taking notice only of the half dozen.

"So the three of us, with Zverkov for the fourth, twenty-one roubles, at
the Hôtel de Paris at five o'clock to-morrow," Simonov, who had been
asked to make the arrangements, concluded finally.

"How twenty-one roubles?" I asked in some agitation, with a show of
being offended; "if you count me it will not be twenty-one, but
twenty-eight roubles."

It seemed to me that to invite myself so suddenly and unexpectedly would
be positively graceful, and that they would all be conquered at once and
would look at me with respect.

"Do you want to join, too?" Simonov observed, with no appearance of
pleasure, seeming to avoid looking at me. He knew me through and
through.

It infuriated me that he knew me so thoroughly.

"Why not? I am an old schoolfellow of his, too, I believe, and I must
own I feel hurt that you have left me out," I said, boiling over again.

"And where were we to find you?" Ferfitchkin put in roughly.

"You never were on good terms with Zverkov," Trudolyubov added,
frowning.

But I had already clutched at the idea and would not give it up.

"It seems to me that no one has a right to form an opinion upon that," I
retorted in a shaking voice, as though something tremendous had
happened. "Perhaps that is just my reason for wishing it now, that I
have not always been on good terms with him."

"Oh, there's no making you out ... with these refinements," Trudolyubov
jeered.

"We'll put your name down," Simonov decided, addressing me. "To-morrow
at five o'clock at the Hôtel de Paris."

"What about the money?" Ferfitchkin began in an undertone, indicating me
to Simonov, but he broke off, for even Simonov was embarrassed.

"That will do," said Trudolyubov, getting up. "If he wants to come so
much, let him."

"But it's a private thing, between us friends," Ferfitchkin said
crossly, as he, too, picked up his hat. "It's not an official
gathering."

"We do not want at all, perhaps...."

They went away. Ferfitchkin did not greet me in any way as he went out,
Trudolyubov barely nodded. Simonov, with whom I was left _tête-à-tête_,
was in a state of vexation and perplexity, and looked at me queerly. He
did not sit down and did not ask me to.

"H'm ... yes ... to-morrow, then. Will you pay your subscription now? I
just ask so as to know," he muttered in embarrassment.

I flushed crimson, and as I did so I remembered that I had owed Simonov
fifteen roubles for ages--which I had, indeed, never forgotten, though I
had not paid it.

"You will understand, Simonov, that I could have no idea when I came
here.... I am very much vexed that I have forgotten...."

"All right, all right, that doesn't matter. You can pay to-morrow after
the dinner. I simply wanted to know.... Please don't...."

He broke off and began pacing the room still more vexed. As he walked he
began to stamp with his heels.

"Am I keeping you?" I asked, after two minutes of silence.

"Oh!" he said, starting, "that is--to be truthful--yes. I have to go and
see some one ... not far from here," he added in an apologetic voice,
somewhat abashed.

"My goodness, why didn't you say so?" I cried, seizing my cap, with an
astonishingly free-and-easy air, which was the last thing I should have
expected of myself.

"It's close by ... not two paces away," Simonov repeated, accompanying
me to the front door with a fussy air which did not suit him at all. "So
five o'clock, punctually, to-morrow," he called down the stairs after
me. He was very glad to get rid of me. I was in a fury.

"What possessed me, what possessed me to force myself upon them?" I
wondered, grinding my teeth as I strode along the street, "for a
scoundrel, a pig like that Zverkov! Of course, I had better not go; of
course, I must just snap my fingers at them. I am not bound in any way.
I'll send Simonov a note by to-morrow's post...."

But what made me furious was that I knew for certain that I should go,
that I should make a point of going; and the more tactless, the more
unseemly my going would be, the more certainly I would go.

And there was a positive obstacle to my going: I had no money. All I had
was nine roubles, I had to give seven of that to my servant, Apollon,
for his monthly wages. That was all I paid him--he had to keep himself.

Not to pay him was impossible, considering his character. But I will
talk about that fellow, about that plague of mine, another time.

However, I knew I should go and should not pay him his wages.

That night I had the most hideous dreams. No wonder; all the evening I
had been oppressed by memories of my miserable days at school, and I
could not shake them off. I was sent to the school by distant relations,
upon whom I was dependent and of whom I have heard nothing since--they
sent me there a forlorn, silent boy, already crushed by their
reproaches, already troubled by doubt, and looking with savage distrust
at every one. My schoolfellows met me with spiteful and merciless jibes
because I was not like any of them. But I could not endure their taunts;
I could not give in to them with the ignoble readiness with which they
gave in to one another. I hated them from the first, and shut myself
away from every one in timid, wounded and disproportionate pride. Their
coarseness revolted me. They laughed cynically at my face, at my clumsy
figure; and yet what stupid faces they had themselves. In our school the
boys' faces seemed in a special way to degenerate and grow stupider. How
many fine-looking boys came to us! In a few years they became repulsive.
Even at sixteen I wondered at them morosely; even then I was struck by
the pettiness of their thoughts, the stupidity of their pursuits, their
games, their conversations. They had no understanding of such essential
things, they took no interest in such striking, impressive subjects,
that I could not help considering them inferior to myself. It was not
wounded vanity that drove me to it, and for God's sake do not thrust
upon me your hackneyed remarks, repeated to nausea, that "I was only a
dreamer," while they even then had an understanding of life. They
understood nothing, they had no idea of real life, and I swear that that
was what made me most indignant with them. On the contrary, the most
obvious, striking reality they accepted with fantastic stupidity and
even at that time were accustomed to respect success. Everything that
was just, but oppressed and looked down upon, they laughed at
heartlessly and shamefully. They took rank for intelligence; even at
sixteen they were already talking about a snug berth. Of course, a great
deal of it was due to their stupidity, to the bad examples with which
they had always been surrounded in their childhood and boyhood. They
were monstrously depraved. Of course a great deal of that, too, was
superficial and an assumption of cynicism; of course there were glimpses
of youth and freshness even in their depravity; but even that freshness
was not attractive, and showed itself in a certain rakishness. I hated
them horribly, though perhaps I was worse than any of them. They repaid
me in the same way, and did not conceal their aversion for me. But by
then I did not desire their affection: on the contrary I continually
longed for their humiliation. To escape from their derision I purposely
began to make all the progress I could with my studies and forced my way
to the very top. This impressed them. Moreover, they all began by
degrees to grasp that I had already read books none of them could read,
and understood things (not forming part of our school curriculum) of
which they had not even heard. They took a savage and sarcastic view of
it, but were morally impressed, especially as the teachers began to
notice me on those grounds. The mockery ceased, but the hostility
remained, and cold and strained relations became permanent between us.
In the end I could not put up with it: with years a craving for society,
for friends, developed in me. I attempted to get on friendly terms with
some of my schoolfellows; but somehow or other my intimacy with them was
always strained and soon ended of itself. Once, indeed, I did have a
friend. But I was already a tyrant at heart; I wanted to exercise
unbounded sway over him; I tried to instil into him a contempt for his
surroundings; I required of him a disdainful and complete break with
those surroundings. I frightened him with my passionate affection; I
reduced him to tears, to hysterics. He was a simple and devoted soul;
but when he devoted himself to me entirely I began to hate him
immediately and repulsed him--as though all I needed him for was to win
a victory over him, to subjugate him and nothing else. But I could not
subjugate all of them; my friend was not at all like them either, he
was, in fact, a rare exception. The first thing I did on leaving school
was to give up the special job for which I had been destined so as to
break all ties, to curse my past and shake the dust from off my feet....
And goodness knows why, after all that, I should go trudging off to
Simonov's!

Early next morning I roused myself and jumped out of bed with
excitement, as though it were all about to happen at once. But I
believed that some radical change in my life was coming, and would
inevitably come that day. Owing to its rarity, perhaps, any external
event, however trivial, always made me feel as though some radical
change in my life were at hand. I went to the office, however, as usual,
but sneaked away home two hours earlier to get ready. The great thing, I
thought, is not to be the first to arrive, or they will think I am
overjoyed at coming. But there were thousands of such great points to
consider, and they all agitated and overwhelmed me. I polished my boots
a second time with my own hands; nothing in the world would have induced
Apollon to clean them twice a day, as he considered that it was more
than his duties required of him. I stole the brushes to clean them from
the passage, being careful he should not detect it, for fear of his
contempt. Then I minutely examined my clothes and thought that
everything looked old, worn and threadbare. I had let myself get too
slovenly. My uniform, perhaps, was tidy, but I could not go out to
dinner in my uniform. The worst of it was that on the knee of my
trousers was a big yellow stain. I had a foreboding that that stain
would deprive me of nine-tenths of my personal dignity. I knew, too,
that it was very poor to think so. "But this is no time for thinking:
now I am in for the real thing," I thought, and my heart sank. I knew,
too, perfectly well even then, that I was monstrously exaggerating the
facts. But how could I help it? I could not control myself and was
already shaking with fever. With despair I pictured to myself how coldly
and disdainfully that "scoundrel" Zverkov would meet me; with what
dull-witted, invincible contempt the blockhead Trudolyubov would look at
me; with what impudent rudeness the insect Ferfitchkin would snigger at
me in order to curry favour with Zverkov; how completely Simonov would
take it all in, and how he would despise me for the abjectness of my
vanity and lack of spirit--and, worst of all, how paltry, _unliterary_,
commonplace it would all be. Of course, the best thing would be not to
go at all. But that was most impossible of all: if I feel impelled to do
anything, I seem to be pitchforked into it. I should have jeered at
myself ever afterwards: "So you funked it, you funked it, you funked the
_real thing_!" On the contrary, I passionately longed to show all that
"rabble" that I was by no means such a spiritless creature as I seemed
to myself. What is more, even in the acutest paroxysm of this cowardly
fever, I dreamed of getting the upper hand, of dominating them, carrying
them away, making them like me--if only for my "elevation of thought and
unmistakable wit." They would abandon Zverkov, he would sit on one side,
silent and ashamed, while I should crush him. Then, perhaps, we would be
reconciled and drink to our everlasting friendship; but what was most
bitter and most humiliating for me was that I knew even then, knew fully
and for certain, that I needed nothing of all this really, that I did
not really want to crush, to subdue, to attract them, and that I did not
care a straw really for the result, even if I did achieve it. Oh, how I
prayed for the day to pass quickly! In unutterable anguish I went to the
window, opened the movable pane and looked out into the troubled
darkness of the thickly falling wet snow. At last my wretched little
clock hissed out five. I seized my hat and trying not to look at
Apollon, who had been all day expecting his month's wages, but in his
foolishness was unwilling to be the first to speak about it, I slipt
between him and the door and jumping into a high-class sledge, on which
I spent my last half rouble, I drove up in grand style to the Hôtel de
Paris.

IV

I had been certain the day before that I should be the first to arrive.
But it was not a question of being the first to arrive. Not only were
they not there, but I had difficulty in finding our room. The table was
not laid even. What did it mean? After a good many questions I elicited
from the waiters that the dinner had been ordered not for five, but for
six o'clock. This was confirmed at the buffet too. I felt really ashamed
to go on questioning them. It was only twenty-five minutes past five. If
they changed the dinner hour they ought at least to have let me
know--that is what the post is for, and not to have put me in an absurd
position in my own eyes and ... and even before the waiters. I sat down;
the servant began laying the table; I felt even more humiliated when he
was present. Towards six o'clock they brought in candles, though there
were lamps burning in the room. It had not occurred to the waiter,
however, to bring them in at once when I arrived. In the next room two
gloomy, angry-looking persons were eating their dinners in silence at
two different tables. There was a great deal of noise, even shouting, in
a room further away; one could hear the laughter of a crowd of people,
and nasty little shrieks in French: there were ladies at the dinner. It
was sickening, in fact. I rarely passed more unpleasant moments, so much
so that when they did arrive all together punctually at six I was
overjoyed to see them, as though they were my deliverers, and even
forgot that it was incumbent upon me to show resentment.

Zverkov walked in at the head of them; evidently he was the leading
spirit. He and all of them were laughing; but, seeing me, Zverkov drew
himself up a little, walked up to me deliberately with a slight, rather
jaunty bend from the waist. He shook hands with me in a friendly, but
not over-friendly, fashion, with a sort of circumspect courtesy like
that of a General, as though in giving me his hand he were warding off
something. I had imagined, on the contrary, that on coming in he would
at once break into his habitual thin, shrill laugh and fall to making
his insipid jokes and witticisms. I had been preparing for them ever
since the previous day, but I had not expected such condescension, such
high-official courtesy. So, then, he felt himself ineffably superior to
me in every respect! If he only meant to insult me by that high-official
tone, it would not matter, I thought--I could pay him back for it one
way or another. But what if, in reality, without the least desire to be
offensive, that sheepshead had a notion in earnest that he was superior
to me and could only look at me in a patronizing way? The very
supposition made me gasp.

"I was surprised to hear of your desire to join us," he began, lisping
and drawling, which was something new. "You and I seem to have seen
nothing of one another. You fight shy of us. You shouldn't. We are not
such terrible people as you think. Well, anyway, I am glad to renew our
acquaintance."

And he turned carelessly to put down his hat on the window.

"Have you been waiting long?" Trudolyubov inquired.

"I arrived at five o'clock as you told me yesterday," I answered aloud,
with an irritability that threatened an explosion.

"Didn't you let him know that we had changed the hour?" said Trudolyubov
to Simonov.

"No, I didn't. I forgot," the latter replied, with no sign of regret,
and without even apologizing to me he went off to order the _hors
d'oeuvres_.

"So you've been here a whole hour? Oh, poor fellow!" Zverkov cried
ironically, for to his notions this was bound to be extremely funny.
That rascal Ferfitchkin followed with his nasty little snigger like a
puppy yapping. My position struck him, too, as exquisitely ludicrous and
embarrassing.

"It isn't funny at all!" I cried to Ferfitchkin, more and more
irritated. "It wasn't my fault, but other people's. They neglected to
let me know. It was ... it was ... it was simply absurd."

"It's not only absurd, but something else as well," muttered
Trudolyubov, naïvely taking my part. "You are not hard enough upon it.
It was simply rudeness--unintentional, of course. And how could Simonov
... h'm!"

"If a trick like that had been played on me," observed Ferfitchkin, "I
should...."

"But you should have ordered something for yourself," Zverkov
interrupted, "or simply asked for dinner without waiting for us."

"You will allow that I might have done that without your permission," I
rapped out. "If I waited, it was...."

"Let us sit down, gentlemen," cried Simonov, coming in. "Everything is
ready; I can answer for the champagne; it is capitally frozen.... You
see, I did not know your address, where was I to look for you?" he
suddenly turned to me, but again he seemed to avoid looking at me.
Evidently he had something against me. It must have been what happened
yesterday.

All sat down; I did the same. It was a round table. Trudolyubov was on
my left, Simonov on my right. Zverkov was sitting opposite, Ferfitchkin
next to him, between him and Trudolyubov.

"Tell me, are you ... in a government office?" Zverkov went on attending
to me. Seeing that I was embarrassed he seriously thought that he ought
to be friendly to me, and, so to speak, cheer me up.

"Does he want me to throw a bottle at his head?" I thought, in a fury.
In my novel surroundings I was unnaturally ready to be irritated.

"In the N---- office," I answered jerkily, with my eyes on my plate.

"And ha-ave you a go-od berth? I say, what ma-a-de you leave your
original job?"

"What ma-a-de me was that I wanted to leave my original job," I drawled
more than he, hardly able to control myself. Ferfitchkin went off into a
guffaw. Simonov looked at me ironically. Trudolyubov left off eating and
began looking at me with curiosity.

Zverkov winced, but he tried not to notice it.

"And the remuneration?"

"What remuneration?"

"I mean, your sa-a-lary?"

"Why are you cross-examining me?" However, I told him at once what my
salary was. I turned horribly red.

"It is not very handsome," Zverkov observed majestically.

"Yes, you can't afford to dine at cafés on that," Ferfitchkin added
insolently.

"To my thinking it's very poor," Trudolyubov observed gravely.

"And how thin you have grown! How you have changed!" added Zverkov, with
a shade of venom in his voice, scanning me and my attire with a sort of
insolent compassion.

"Oh, spare his blushes," cried Ferfitchkin, sniggering.

"My dear sir, allow me to tell you I am not blushing," I broke out at
last; "do you hear? I am dining here, at this café, at my own expense,
not at other people's--note that, Mr. Ferfitchkin."

"Wha-at? Isn't every one here dining at his own expense? You would seem
to be...." Ferfitchkin flew out at me, turning as red as a lobster, and
looking me in the face with fury.

"Tha-at," I answered, feeling I had gone too far, "and I imagine it
would be better to talk of something more intelligent."

"You intend to show off your intelligence, I suppose?"

"Don't disturb yourself, that would be quite out of place here."

"Why are you clacking away like that, my good sir, eh? Have you gone out
of your wits in your office?"

"Enough, gentlemen, enough!" Zverkov cried, authoritatively.

"How stupid it is!" muttered Simonov.

"It really is stupid. We have met here, a company of friends, for a
farewell dinner to a comrade and you carry on an altercation," said
Trudolyubov, rudely addressing himself to me alone. "You invited
yourself to join us, so don't disturb the general harmony."

"Enough, enough!" cried Zverkov. "Give over, gentlemen, it's out of
place. Better let me tell you how I nearly got married the day before
yesterday...."

And then followed a burlesque narrative of how this gentleman had almost
been married two days before. There was not a word about the marriage,
however, but the story was adorned with generals, colonels and
kammer-junkers, while Zverkov almost took the lead among them. It was
greeted with approving laughter; Ferfitchkin positively squealed.

No one paid any attention to me, and I sat crushed and humiliated.

"Good Heavens, these are not the people for me!" I thought. "And what a
fool I have made of myself before them! I let Ferfitchkin go too far,
though. The brutes imagine they are doing me an honour in letting me sit
down with them. They don't understand that it's an honour to them and
not to me! I've grown thinner! My clothes! Oh, damn my trousers! Zverkov
noticed the yellow stain on the knee as soon as he came in.... But
what's the use! I must get up at once, this very minute, take my hat and
simply go without a word ... with contempt! And to-morrow I can send a
challenge. The scoundrels! As though I cared about the seven roubles.
They may think.... Damn it! I don't care about the seven roubles. I'll
go this minute!"

Of course I remained. I drank sherry and Lafitte by the glassful in my
discomfiture. Being unaccustomed to it, I was quickly affected. My
annoyance increased as the wine went to my head. I longed all at once to
insult them all in a most flagrant manner and then go away. To seize the
moment and show what I could do, so that they would say, "He's clever,
though he is absurd," and ... and ... in fact, damn them all!

I scanned them all insolently with my drowsy eyes. But they seemed to
have forgotten me altogether. They were noisy, vociferous, cheerful.
Zverkov was talking all the time. I began listening. Zverkov was talking
of some exuberant lady whom he had at last led on to declaring her love
(of course, he was lying like a horse), and how he had been helped in
this affair by an intimate friend of his, a Prince Kolya, an officer in
the hussars, who had three thousand serfs.

"And yet this Kolya, who has three thousand serfs, has not put in an
appearance here to-night to see you off," I cut in suddenly.

For a minute every one was silent. "You are drunk already." Trudolyubov
deigned to notice me at last, glancing contemptuously in my direction.
Zverkov, without a word, examined me as though I were an insect. I
dropped my eyes. Simonov made haste to fill up the glasses with
champagne.

Trudolyubov raised his glass, as did every one else but me.

"Your health and good luck on the journey!" he cried to Zverkov. "To old
times, to our future, hurrah!"

They all tossed off their glasses, and crowded round Zverkov to kiss
him. I did not move; my full glass stood untouched before me.

"Why, aren't you going to drink it?" roared Trudolyubov, losing patience
and turning menacingly to me.

"I want to make a speech separately, on my own account ... and then I'll
drink it, Mr. Trudolyubov."

"Spiteful brute!" muttered Simonov. I drew myself up in my chair and
feverishly seized my glass, prepared for something extraordinary, though
I did not know myself precisely what I was going to say.

"_Silence!_" cried Ferfitchkin. "Now for a display of wit!"

Zverkov waited very gravely, knowing what was coming.

"Mr. Lieutenant Zverkov," I began, "let me tell you that I hate phrases,
phrasemongers and men in corsets ... that's the first point, and there
is a second one to follow it."

There was a general stir.

"The second point is: I hate ribaldry and ribald talkers. Especially
ribald talkers! The third point: I love justice, truth and honesty." I
went on almost mechanically, for I was beginning to shiver with horror
myself and had no idea how I came to be talking like this. "I love
thought, Monsieur Zverkov; I love true comradeship, on an equal footing
and not.... H'm ... I love.... But, however, why not? I will drink your
health, too, Mr. Zverkov. Seduce the Circassian girls, shoot the enemies
of the fatherland and ... and ... to your health, Monsieur Zverkov!"

Zverkov got up from his seat, bowed to me and said:

"I am very much obliged to you." He was frightfully offended and turned
pale.

"Damn the fellow!" roared Trudolyubov, bringing his fist down on the
table.

"Well, he wants a punch in the face for that," squealed Ferfitchkin.

"We ought to turn him out," muttered Simonov.

"Not a word, gentlemen, not a movement!" cried Zverkov solemnly,
checking the general indignation. "I thank you all, but I can show him
for myself how much value I attach to his words."

"Mr. Ferfitchkin, you will give me satisfaction to-morrow for your words
just now!" I said aloud, turning with dignity to Ferfitchkin.

"A duel, you mean? Certainly," he answered. But probably I was so
ridiculous as I challenged him and it was so out of keeping with my
appearance that everyone, including Ferfitchkin, was prostrate with
laughter.

"Yes, let him alone, of course! He is quite drunk," Trudolyubov said
with disgust.

"I shall never forgive myself for letting him join us," Simonov muttered
again.

"Now is the time to throw a bottle at their heads," I thought to myself.
I picked up the bottle ... and filled my glass.... "No, I'd better sit
on to the end," I went on thinking; "you would be pleased, my friends if
I went away. Nothing will induce me to go. I'll go on sitting here and
drinking to the end, on purpose, as a sign that I don't think you of the
slightest consequence. I will go on sitting and drinking, because this
is a public-house and I paid my entrance money. I'll sit here and drink,
for I look upon you as so many pawns, as inanimate pawns. I'll sit here
and drink ... and sing if I want to, yes, sing, for I have the right to
... to sing.... H'm!"

But I did not sing. I simply tried not to look at any of them. I assumed
most unconcerned attitudes and waited with impatience for them to speak
_first_. But alas, they did not address me! And oh, how I wished, how I
wished at that moment to be reconciled to them! It struck eight, at last
nine. They moved from the table to the sofa. Zverkov stretched himself
on a lounge and put one foot on a round table. Wine was brought there.
He did, as a fact, order three bottles on his own account. I, of course,
was not invited to join them. They all sat round him on the sofa. They
listened to him, almost with reverence. It was evident that they were
fond of him. "What for? What for?" I wondered. From time to time they
were moved to drunken enthusiasm and kissed each other. They talked of
the Caucasus, of the nature of true passion, of snug berths in the
service, of the income of an hussar called Podharzhevsky, whom none of
them knew personally, and rejoiced in the largeness of it, of the
extraordinary grace and beauty of a Princess D., whom none of them had
ever seen; then it came to Shakespeare's being immortal.

I smiled contemptuously and walked up and down the other side of the
room, opposite the sofa, from the table to the stove and back again. I
tried my very utmost to show them that I could do without them, and yet
I purposely made a noise with my boots, thumping with my heels. But it
was all in vain. They paid no attention. I had the patience to walk up
and down in front of them from eight o'clock till eleven, in the same
place, from the table to the stove and back again. "I walk up and down
to please myself and no one can prevent me." The waiter who came into
the room stopped, from time to time, to look at me. I was somewhat giddy
from turning round so often; at moments it seemed to me that I was in
delirium. During those three hours I was three times soaked with sweat
and dry again. At times, with an intense, acute pang I was stabbed to
the heart by the thought that ten years, twenty years, forty years would
pass, and that even in forty years I would remember with loathing and
humiliation those filthiest, most ludicrous, and most awful moments of
my life. No one could have gone out of his way to degrade himself more
shamelessly, and I fully realized it, fully, and yet I went on pacing up
and down from the table to the stove. "Oh, if you only knew what
thoughts and feelings I am capable of, how cultured I am!" I thought at
moments, mentally addressing the sofa on which my enemies were sitting.
But my enemies behaved as though I were not in the room. Once--only
once--they turned towards me, just when Zverkov was talking about
Shakespeare, and I suddenly gave a contemptuous laugh. I laughed in such
an affected and disgusting way that they all at once broke off their
conversation, and silently and gravely for two minutes watched me
walking up and down from the table to the stove, _taking no notice of
them_. But nothing came of it: they said nothing, and two minutes later
they ceased to notice me again. It struck eleven.

"Friends," cried Zverkov getting up from the sofa, "let us all be off
now, _there_!"

"Of course, of course," the others assented. I turned sharply to
Zverkov. I was so harassed, so exhausted, that I would have cut my
throat to put an end to it. I was in a fever; my hair, soaked with
perspiration, stuck to my forehead and temples.

"Zverkov, I beg your pardon," I said abruptly and resolutely.
"Ferfitchkin, yours too, and every one's, every one's: I have insulted
you all!"

"Aha! A duel is not in your line, old man," Ferfitchkin hissed
venomously.

It sent a sharp pang to my heart.

"No, it's not the duel I am afraid of, Ferfitchkin! I am ready to fight
you to-morrow, after we are reconciled. I insist upon it, in fact, and
you cannot refuse. I want to show you that I am not afraid of a duel.
You shall fire first and I shall fire into the air."

"He is comforting himself," said Simonov.

"He's simply raving," said Trudolyubov.

"But let us pass. Why are you barring our way? What do you want?"
Zverkov answered disdainfully.

They were all flushed; their eyes were bright: they had been drinking
heavily.

"I ask for your friendship, Zverkov; I insulted you, but...."

"Insulted? _You_ insulted _me_? Understand, sir, that you never, under
any circumstances, could possibly insult _me_."

"And that's enough for you. Out of the way!" concluded Trudolyubov.

"Olympia is mine, friends, that's agreed!" cried Zverkov.

"We won't dispute your right, we won't dispute your right," the others
answered, laughing.

I stood as though spat upon. The party went noisily out of the room.
Trudolyubov struck up some stupid song. Simonov remained behind for a
moment to tip the waiters. I suddenly went up to him.

"Simonov! give me six roubles!" I said, with desperate resolution.

He looked at me in extreme amazement, with vacant eyes. He, too, was
drunk.

"You don't mean you are coming with us?"

"Yes."

"I've no money," he snapped out, and with a scornful laugh he went out
of the room.

I clutched at his overcoat. It was a nightmare.

"Simonov, I saw you had money. Why do you refuse me? Am I a scoundrel?
Beware of refusing me: if you knew, if you knew why I am asking! My
whole future, my whole plans depend upon it!"

Simonov pulled out the money and almost flung it at me.

"Take it, if you have no sense of shame!" he pronounced pitilessly, and
ran to overtake them.

I was left for a moment alone. Disorder, the remains of dinner, a broken
wine-glass on the floor, spilt wine, cigarette ends, fumes of drink and
delirium in my brain, an agonizing misery in my heart and finally the
waiter, who had seen and heard all and was looking inquisitively into my
face.

"I am going there!" I cried. "Either they shall all go down on their
knees to beg for my friendship, or I will give Zverkov a slap in the
face!"

V

"So this is it, this is it at last--contact with real life," I muttered
as I ran headlong downstairs. "This is very different from the Pope's
leaving Rome and going to Brazil, very different from the ball on Lake
Como!"

"You are a scoundrel," a thought flashed through my mind, "if you laugh
at this now."

"No matter!" I cried, answering myself. "Now everything is lost!"

There was no trace to be seen of them, but that made no difference--I
knew where they had gone.

At the steps was standing a solitary night sledge-driver in a rough
peasant coat, powdered over with the still falling, wet, and as it were
warm, snow. It was hot and steamy. The little shaggy piebald horse was
also covered with snow and coughing, I remember that very well. I made a
rush for the roughly made sledge; but as soon as I raised my foot to get
into it, the recollection of how Simonov had just given me six roubles
seemed to double me up and I tumbled into the sledge like a sack.

"No, I must do a great deal to make up for all that," I cried. "But I
will make up for it or perish on the spot this very night. Start!"

We set off. There was a perfect whirl in my head.

"They won't go down on their knees to beg for my friendship. That is a
mirage, cheap mirage, revolting, romantic and fantastical--that's
another ball on Lake Como. And so I am bound to slap Zverkov's face! It
is my duty to. And so it is settled; I am flying to give him a slap in
the face. Hurry up!"

The driver tugged at the reins.

"As soon as I go in I'll give it him. Ought I before giving him the slap
to say a few words by way of preface? No. I'll simply go in and give it
him. They will all be sitting in the drawing-room, and he with Olympia
on the sofa. That damned Olympia! She laughed at my looks on one
occasion and refused me. I'll pull Olympia's hair, pull Zverkov's ears!
No, better one ear, and pull him by it round the room. Maybe they will
all begin beating me and will kick me out. That's most likely, indeed.
No matter! Anyway, I shall first slap him; the initiative will be mine;
and by the laws of honour that is everything: he will be branded and
cannot wipe off the slap by any blows, by nothing but a duel. He will be
forced to fight. And let them beat me now. Let them, the ungrateful
wretches! Trudolyubov will beat me hardest, he is so strong; Ferfitchkin
will be sure to catch hold sideways and tug at my hair. But no matter,
no matter! That's what I am going for. The blockheads will be forced at
last to see the tragedy of it all! When they drag me to the door I shall
call out to them that in reality they are not worth my little finger.
Get on, driver, get on!" I cried to the driver. He started and flicked
his whip, I shouted so savagely.

"We shall fight at daybreak, that's a settled thing. I've done with the
office. Ferfitchkin made a joke about it just now. But where can I get
pistols? Nonsense! I'll get my salary in advance and buy them. And
powder, and bullets? That's the second's business. And how can it all be
done by daybreak? And where am I to get a second? I have no friends.
Nonsense!" I cried, lashing myself up more and more. "It's of no
consequence! the first person I meet in the street is bound to be my
second, just as he would be bound to pull a drowning man out of water.
The most eccentric things may happen. Even if I were to ask the director
himself to be my second to-morrow, he would be bound to consent, if only
from a feeling of chivalry, and to keep the secret! Anton Antonitch...."

The fact is, that at that very minute the disgusting absurdity of my
plan and the other side of the question was clearer and more vivid to my
imagination than it could be to any one on earth. But....

"Get on, driver, get on, you rascal, get on!"

"Ugh, sir!" said the son of toil.

Cold shivers suddenly ran down me. Wouldn't it be better ... to go
straight home? My God, my God! Why did I invite myself to this dinner
yesterday? But no, it's impossible. And my walking up and down for three
hours from the table to the stove? No, they, they and no one else must
pay for my walking up and down! They must wipe out this dishonour! Drive
on!

And what if they give me into custody? They won't dare! They'll be
afraid of the scandal. And what if Zverkov is so contemptuous that he
refuses to fight a duel? He is sure to; but in that case I'll show them
... I will turn up at the posting station when he is setting off
to-morrow, I'll catch him by the leg, I'll pull off his coat when he
gets into the carriage. I'll get my teeth into his hand, I'll bite him.
"See what lengths you can drive a desperate man to!" He may hit me on
the head and they may belabour me from behind. I will shout to the
assembled multitude: "Look at this young puppy who is driving off to
captivate the Circassian girls after letting me spit in his face!"

Of course, after that everything will be over! The office will have
vanished off the face of the earth. I shall be arrested, I shall be
tried, I shall be dismissed from the service, thrown in prison, sent to
Siberia. Never mind! In fifteen years when they let me out of prison I
will trudge off to him, a beggar, in rags. I shall find him in some
provincial town. He will be married and happy. He will have a grown-up
daughter.... I shall say to him: "Look, monster, at my hollow cheeks and
my rags! I've lost everything--my career, my happiness, art, science,
_the woman I loved_, and all through you. Here are pistols. I have come
to discharge my pistol and ... and I ... forgive you. Then I shall fire
into the air and he will hear nothing more of me...."

I was actually on the point of tears, though I knew perfectly well at
that moment that all this was out of Pushkin's _Silvio_ and Lermontov's
_Masquerade_. And all at once I felt horribly ashamed, so ashamed that I
stopped the horse, got out of the sledge, and stood still in the snow in
the middle of the street. The driver gazed at me, sighing and
astonished.

What was I to do? I could not go on there--it was evidently stupid, and
I could not leave things as they were, because that would seem as
though.... Heavens, how could I leave things! And after such insults!
"No!" I cried, throwing myself into the sledge again. "It is ordained!
It is fate! Drive on, drive on!"

And in my impatience I punched the sledge-driver on the back of the
neck.

"What are you up to? What are you hitting me for?" the peasant shouted,
but he whipped up his nag so that it began kicking.

The wet snow was falling in big flakes; I unbuttoned myself, regardless
of it. I forgot everything else, for I had finally decided on the slap,
and felt with horror that it was going to happen _now, at once_, and
that _no force could stop it_. The deserted street lamps gleamed
sullenly in the snowy darkness like torches at a funeral. The snow
drifted under my great-coat, under my coat, under my cravat, and melted
there. I did not wrap myself up--all was lost, anyway.

At last we arrived. I jumped out, almost unconscious, ran up the steps
and began knocking and kicking at the door. I felt fearfully weak,
particularly in my legs and my knees. The door was opened quickly as
though they knew I was coming. As a fact, Simonov had warned them that
perhaps another gentleman would arrive, and this was a place in which
one had to give notice and to observe certain precautions. It was one of
those "millinery establishments" which were abolished by the police a
good time ago. By day it really was a shop; but at night, if one had an
introduction, one might visit it for other purposes.

I walked rapidly through the dark shop into the familiar drawing-room,
where there was only one candle burning, and stood still in amazement:
there was no one there. "Where are they?" I asked somebody. But by now,
of course, they had separated. Before me was standing a person with a
stupid smile, the "madam" herself, who had seen me before. A minute
later a door opened and another person came in.

Taking no notice of anything I strode about the room, and, I believe, I
talked to myself. I felt as though I had been saved from death and was
conscious of this, joyfully, all over: I should have given that slap, I
should certainly, certainly have given it! But now they were not here
and ... everything had vanished and changed! I looked round. I could not
realize my condition yet. I looked mechanically at the girl who had come
in: and had a glimpse of a fresh, young, rather pale face, with
straight, dark eyebrows, and with grave, as it were wondering, eyes that
attracted me at once; I should have hated her if she had been smiling. I
began looking at her more intently and, as it were, with effort. I had
not fully collected my thoughts. There was something simple and
good-natured in her face, but something strangely grave. I am sure that
this stood in her way here, and no one of those fools had noticed her.
She could not, however, have been called a beauty, though she was tall,
strong-looking, and well built. She was very simply dressed. Something
loathsome stirred within me. I went straight up to her.

I chanced to look into the glass. My harassed face struck me as
revolting in the extreme, pale, angry, abject, with dishevelled hair.
"No matter, I am glad of it," I thought; "I am glad that I shall seem
repulsive to her; I like that."

VI

... Somewhere behind a screen a clock began wheezing, as though
oppressed by something, as though some one were strangling it. After an
unnaturally prolonged wheezing there followed a shrill, nasty, and as it
were unexpectedly rapid, chime--as though some one were suddenly jumping
forward. It struck two. I woke up, though I had indeed not been asleep
but lying half conscious.

It was almost completely dark in the narrow, cramped, low-pitched room,
cumbered up with an enormous wardrobe and piles of cardboard boxes and
all sorts of frippery and litter. The candle end that had been burning
on the table was going out and gave a faint flicker from time to time.
In a few minutes there would be complete darkness.

I was not long in coming to myself; everything came back to my mind at
once, without an effort, as though it had been in ambush to pounce upon
me again. And, indeed, even while I was unconscious a point seemed
continually to remain in my memory unforgotten, and round it my dreams
moved drearily. But strange to say, everything that had happened to me
in that day seemed to me now, on waking, to be in the far, far away
past, as though I had long, long ago lived all that down.

My head was full of fumes. Something seemed to be hovering over me,
rousing me, exciting me, and making me restless. Misery and spite seemed
surging up in me again and seeking an outlet. Suddenly I saw beside me
two wide open eyes scrutinizing me curiously and persistently. The look
in those eyes was coldly detached, sullen, as it were utterly remote; it
weighed upon me.

A grim idea came into my brain and passed all over my body, as a
horrible sensation, such as one feels when one goes into a damp and
mouldy cellar. There was something unnatural in those two eyes,
beginning to look at me only now. I recalled, too, that during those two
hours I had not said a single word to this creature, and had, in fact,
considered it utterly superfluous; in fact, the silence had for some
reason gratified me. Now I suddenly realized vividly the hideous
idea--revolting as a spider--of vice, which, without love, grossly and
shamelessly begins with that in which true love finds its consummation.
For a long time we gazed at each other like that, but she did not drop
her eyes before mine and her expression did not change, so that at last
I felt uncomfortable.

"What is your name?" I asked abruptly, to put an end to it.

"Liza," she answered almost in a whisper, but somehow far from
graciously, and she turned her eyes away.

I was silent.

"What weather! The snow ... it's disgusting!" I said, almost to myself,
putting my arm under my head despondently, and gazing at the ceiling.

She made no answer. This was horrible.

"Have you always lived in Petersburg?" I asked a minute later, almost
angrily, turning my head slightly towards her.

"No."

"Where do you come from?"

"From Riga," she answered reluctantly.

"Are you a German?"

"No, Russian."

"Have you been here long?"

"Where?"

"In this house?"

"A fortnight."

She spoke more and more jerkily. The candle went out; I could no longer
distinguish her face.

"Have you a father and mother?"

"Yes ... no ... I have."

"Where are they?"

"There ... in Riga."

"What are they?"

"Oh, nothing."

"Nothing? Why, what class are they?"

"Tradespeople."

"Have you always lived with them?"

"Yes."

"How old are you?"

"Twenty."

"Why did you leave them?"

"Oh, for no reason."

That answer meant "Let me alone; I feel sick, sad."

We were silent.

God knows why I did not go away. I felt myself more and more sick and
dreary. The images of the previous day began of themselves, apart from
my will, flitting through my memory in confusion. I suddenly recalled
something I had seen that morning when, full of anxious thoughts, I was
hurrying to the office.

"I saw them carrying a coffin out yesterday and they nearly dropped it,"
I suddenly said aloud, not that I desired to open the conversation, but
as it were by accident.

"A coffin?"

"Yes, in the Haymarket; they were bringing it up out of a cellar."

"From a cellar?"

"Not from a cellar, but from a basement. Oh, you know ... down below ...
from a house of ill-fame. It was filthy all round.... Egg-shells, litter
... a stench. It was loathsome."

Silence.

"A nasty day to be buried," I began, simply to avoid being silent.

"Nasty, in what way?"

"The snow, the wet." (I yawned.)

"It makes no difference," she said suddenly, after a brief silence.

"No, it's horrid." (I yawned again.) "The gravediggers must have sworn
at getting drenched by the snow. And there must have been water in the
grave."

"Why water in the grave?" she asked, with a sort of curiosity, but
speaking even more harshly and abruptly than before.

I suddenly began to feel provoked.

"Why, there must have been water at the bottom a foot deep. You can't
dig a dry grave in Volkovo Cemetery."

"Why?"

"Why? Why, the place is waterlogged. It's a regular marsh. So they bury
them in water. I've seen it myself ... many times."

(I had never seen it once, indeed I had never been in Volkovo, and had
only heard stories of it.)

"Do you mean to say, you don't mind how you die?"

"But why should I die?" she answered, as though defending herself.

"Why, some day you will die, and you will die just the same as that dead
woman. She was ... a girl like you. She died of consumption."

"A wench would have died in hospital...." (She knows all about it
already: she said "wench," not "girl.")

"She was in debt to her madam," I retorted, more and more provoked by
the discussion; "and went on earning money for her up to the end, though
she was in consumption. Some sledge-drivers standing by were talking
about her to some soldiers and telling them so. No doubt they knew her.
They were laughing. They were going to meet in a pot-house to drink to
her memory."

A great deal of this was my invention. Silence followed, profound
silence. She did not stir.

"And is it better to die in a hospital?"

"Isn't it just the same? Besides, why should I die?" she added
irritably.

"If not now, a little later."

"Why a little later?"

"Why, indeed? Now you are young, pretty, fresh, you fetch a high price.
But after another year of this life you will be very different--you will
go off."

"In a year?"

"Anyway, in a year you will be worth less," I continued malignantly.
"You will go from here to something lower, another house; a year
later--to a third, lower and lower, and in seven years you will come to
a basement in the Haymarket. That will be if you were lucky. But it
would be much worse if you got some disease, consumption, say ... and
caught a chill, or something or other. It's not easy to get over an
illness in your way of life. If you catch anything you may not get rid
of it. And so you would die."

"Oh, well, then I shall die," she answered, quite vindictively, and she
made a quick movement.

"But one is sorry."

"Sorry for whom?"

"Sorry for life."

Silence.

"Have you been engaged to be married? Eh?"

"What's that to you?"

"Oh, I am not cross-examining you. It's nothing to me. Why are you so
cross? Of course you may have had your own troubles. What is it to me?
It's simply that I felt sorry."

"Sorry for whom?"

"Sorry for you."

"No need," she whispered hardly audibly, and again made a faint
movement.

That incensed me at once. What! I was so gentle with her, and she....

"Why, do you think that you are on the right path?"

"I don't think anything."

"That's what's wrong, that you don't think. Realize it while there is
still time. There still is time. You are still young, good-looking; you
might love, be married, be happy...."

"Not all married women are happy," she snapped out in the rude abrupt
tone she had used at first.

"Not all, of course, but anyway it is much better than the life here.
Infinitely better. Besides, with love one can live even without
happiness. Even in sorrow life is sweet; life is sweet, however one
lives. But here what is there but ... foulness. Phew!"

I turned away with disgust; I was no longer reasoning coldly. I began to
feel myself what I was saying and warmed to the subject. I was already
longing to expound the cherished ideas I had brooded over in my corner.
Something suddenly flared up in me. An object had appeared before me.

"Never mind my being here, I am not an example for you. I am, perhaps,
worse than you are. I was drunk when I came here, though," I hastened,
however, to say in self-defence. "Besides, a man is no example for a
woman. It's a different thing. I may degrade and defile myself, but I am
not any one's slave. I come and go, and that's an end of it. I shake it
off, and I am a different man. But you are a slave from the start. Yes,
a slave! You give up everything, your whole freedom. If you want to
break your chains afterwards, you won't be able to: you will be more and
more fast in the snares. It is an accursed bondage. I know it. I won't
speak of anything else, maybe you won't understand, but tell me: no
doubt you are in debt to your madam? There, you see," I added, though
she made no answer, but only listened in silence, entirely absorbed,
"that's a bondage for you! You will never buy your freedom. They will
see to that. It's like selling your soul to the devil.... And besides
... perhaps I, too, am just as unlucky--how do you know--and wallow in
the mud on purpose, out of misery? You know, men take to drink from
grief; well, maybe I am here from grief. Come, tell me, what is there
good here? Here you and I ... came together ... just now and did not say
one word to one another all the time, and it was only afterwards you
began staring at me like a wild creature, and I at you. Is that loving?
Is that how one human being should meet another? It's hideous, that's
what it is!"

"Yes!" she assented sharply and hurriedly.

I was positively astounded by the promptitude of this "Yes." So the same
thought may have been straying through her mind when she was staring at
me just before. So she, too, was capable of certain thoughts? "Damn it
all, this was interesting, this was a point of likeness!" I thought,
almost rubbing my hands. And indeed it's easy to turn a young soul like
that!

It was the exercise of my power that attracted me most.

She turned her head nearer to me, and it seemed to me in the darkness
that she propped herself on her arm. Perhaps she was scrutinizing me.
How I regretted that I could not see her eyes. I heard her deep
breathing.

"Why have you come here?" I asked her, with a note of authority already
in my voice.

"Oh, I don't know."

"But how nice it would be to be living in your father's house! It's warm
and free; you have a home of your own."

"But what if it's worse than this?"

"I must take the right tone," flashed through my mind. "I may not get
far with sentimentality." But it was only a momentary thought. I swear
she really did interest me. Besides, I was exhausted and moody. And
cunning so easily goes hand-in-hand with feeling.

"Who denies it!" I hastened to answer. "Anything may happen. I am
convinced that some one has wronged you, and that you are more sinned
against than sinning. Of course, I know nothing of your story, but it's
not likely a girl like you has come here of her own inclination...."

"A girl like me?" she whispered, hardly audibly; but I heard it.

Damn it all, I was flattering her. That was horrid. But perhaps it was a
good thing.... She was silent.

"See, Liza, I will tell you about myself. If I had had a home from
childhood, I shouldn't be what I am now. I often think that. However bad
it may be at home, anyway they are your father and mother, and not
enemies, strangers. Once a year at least, they'll show their love of
you. Anyway, you know you are at home. I grew up without a home; and
perhaps that's why I've turned so ... unfeeling."

I waited again. "Perhaps she doesn't understand," I thought, "and,
indeed, it is absurd--it's moralizing."

"If I were a father and had a daughter, I believe I should love my
daughter more than my sons, really," I began indirectly, as though
talking of something else, to distract her attention. I must confess I
blushed.

"Why so?" she asked.

Ah! so she was listening!

"I don't know, Liza. I knew a father who was a stern, austere man, but
used to go down on his knees to his daughter, used to kiss her hands,
her feet, he couldn't make enough of her, really. When she danced at
parties he used to stand for five hours at a stretch, gazing at her. He
was mad over her: I understand that! She would fall asleep tired at
night, and he would wake to kiss her in her sleep and make the sign of
the cross over her. He would go about in a dirty old coat, he was stingy
to every one else, but would spend his last penny for her, giving her
expensive presents, and it was his greatest delight when she was pleased
with what he gave her. Fathers always love their daughters more than the
mothers do. Some girls live happily at home! And I believe I should
never let my daughters marry."

"What next?" she said, with a faint smile.

"I should be jealous, I really should. To think that she should kiss any
one else! That she should love a stranger more than her father! It's
painful to imagine it. Of course, that's all nonsense, of course every
father would be reasonable at last. But I believe before I should let
her marry, I should worry myself to death; I should find fault with all
her suitors. But I should end by letting her marry whom she herself
loved. The one whom the daughter loves always seems the worst to the
father, you know. That is always so. So many family troubles come from
that."

"Some are glad to sell their daughters, rather than marrying them
honourably."

Ah, so that was it!

"Such a thing, Liza, happens in those accursed families in which there
is neither love nor God," I retorted warmly, "and where there is no
love, there is no sense either. There are such families, it's true, but
I am not speaking of them. You must have seen wickedness in your own
family, if you talk like that. Truly, you must have been unlucky. H'm!
... that sort of thing mostly comes about through poverty."

"And is it any better with the gentry? Even among the poor, honest
people live happily."

"H'm ... yes. Perhaps. Another thing, Liza, man is fond of reckoning up
his troubles, but does not count his joys. If he counted them up as he
ought, he would see that every lot has enough happiness provided for it.
And what if all goes well with the family, if the blessing of God is
upon it, if the husband is a good one, loves you, cherishes you, never
leaves you! There is happiness in such a family! Even sometimes there is
happiness in the midst of sorrow; and indeed sorrow is everywhere. If
you marry _you will find out for yourself_. But think of the first years
of married life with one you love: what happiness, what happiness there
sometimes is in it! And indeed it's the ordinary thing. In those early
days even quarrels with one's husband end happily. Some women get up
quarrels with their husbands just because they love them. Indeed, I knew
a woman like that: she seemed to say that because she loved him, she
would torment him and make him feel it. You know that you may torment a
man on purpose through love. Women are particularly given to that,
thinking to themselves 'I will love him so, I will make so much of him
afterwards, that it's no sin to torment him a little now.' And all in
the house rejoice in the sight of you, and you are happy and gay and
peaceful and honourable.... Then there are some women who are jealous.
If he went off anywhere--I knew one such woman, she couldn't restrain
herself, but would jump up at night and run off on the sly to find out
where he was, whether he was with some other woman. That's a pity. And
the woman knows herself it's wrong, and her heart fails her and she
suffers, but she loves--it's all through love. And how sweet it is to
make it up after quarrels, to own herself in the wrong or to forgive
him! And they are both so happy all at once--as though they had met
anew, been married over again; as though their love had begun afresh.
And no one, no one should know what passes between husband and wife if
they love one another. And whatever quarrels there may be between them
they ought not to call in their own mother to judge between them and
tell tales of one another. They are their own judges. Love is a holy
mystery and ought to be hidden from all other eyes, whatever happens.
That makes it holier and better. They respect one another more, and much
is built on respect. And if once there has been love, if they have been
married for love, why should love pass away? Surely one can keep it! It
is rare that one cannot keep it. And if the husband is kind and
straightforward, why should not love last? The first phase of married
love will pass, it is true, but then there will come a love that is
better still. Then there will be the union of souls, they will have
everything in common, there will be no secrets between them. And once
they have children, the most difficult times will seem to them happy, so
long as there is love and courage. Even toil will be a joy, you may deny
yourself bread for your children and even that will be a joy. They will
love you for it afterwards; so you are laying by for your future. As the
children grow up you feel that you are an example, a support for them;
that even after you die your children will always keep your thoughts and
feelings, because they have received them from you, they will take on
your semblance and likeness. So you see this is a great duty. How can it
fail to draw the father and mother nearer? People say it's a trial to
have children. Who says that? It is heavenly happiness! Are you fond of
little children, Liza? I am awfully fond of them. You know--a little
rosy baby boy at your bosom, and what husband's heart is not touched,
seeing his wife nursing his child! A plump little rosy baby, sprawling
and snuggling, chubby little hands and feet, clean tiny little nails, so
tiny that it makes one laugh to look at them; eyes that look as if they
understand everything. And while it sucks it clutches at your bosom with
its little hand, plays. When its father comes up, the child tears itself
away from the bosom, flings itself back, looks at its father, laughs, as
though it were fearfully funny and falls to sucking again. Or it will
bite its mother's breast when its little teeth are coming, while it
looks sideways at her with its little eyes as though to say, 'Look, I am
biting!' Is not all that happiness when they are the three together,
husband, wife and child? One can forgive a great deal for the sake of
such moments. Yes, Liza, one must first learn to live oneself before one
blames others!"

"It's by pictures, pictures like that one must get at you," I thought to
myself, though I did speak with real feeling, and all at once I flushed
crimson. "What if she were suddenly to burst out laughing, what should I
do then?" That idea drove me to fury. Towards the end of my speech I
really was excited, and now my vanity was somehow wounded. The silence
continued. I almost nudged her.

"Why are you----" she began and stopped. But I understood: there was a
quiver of something different in her voice, not abrupt, harsh and
unyielding as before, but something soft and shamefaced, so shamefaced
that I suddenly felt ashamed and guilty.

"What?" I asked, with tender curiosity.

"Why, you...."

"What?"

"Why, you ... speak somehow like a book," she said, and again there was
a note of irony in her voice.

That remark sent a pang to my heart. It was not what I was expecting.

I did not understand that she was hiding her feelings under irony, that
this is usually the last refuge of modest and chaste-souled people when
the privacy of their soul is coarsely and intrusively invaded, and that
their pride makes them refuse to surrender till the last moment and
shrink from giving expression to their feelings before you. I ought to
have guessed the truth from the timidity with which she had repeatedly
approached her sarcasm, only bringing herself to utter it at last with
an effort. But I did not guess, and an evil feeling took possession of
me.

"Wait a bit!" I thought.

VII

"Oh, hush, Liza! How can you talk about being like a book, when it makes
even me, an outsider, feel sick? Though I don't look at it as an
outsider, for, indeed, it touches me to the heart.... Is it possible, is
it possible that you do not feel sick at being here yourself? Evidently
habit does wonders! God knows what habit can do with any one. Can you
seriously think that you will never grow old, that you will always be
good-looking, and that they will keep you here for ever and ever? I say
nothing of the loathsomeness of the life here.... Though let me tell you
this about it--about your present life, I mean; here though you are
young now, attractive, nice, with soul and feeling, yet you know as soon
as I came to myself just now I felt at once sick at being here with you!
One can only come here when one is drunk. But if you were anywhere else,
living as good people live, I should perhaps be more than attracted by
you, should fall in love with you, should be glad of a look from you,
let alone a word; I should hang about your door, should go down on my
knees to you, should look upon you as my betrothed and think it an
honour to be allowed to. I should not dare to have an impure thought
about you. But here, you see, I know that I have only to whistle and you
have to come with me whether you like it or not. I don't consult your
wishes, but you mine. The lowest labourer hires himself as a workman but
he doesn't make a slave of himself altogether; besides, he knows that he
will be free again presently. But when are you free? Only think what you
are giving up here? What is it you are making a slave of? It is your
soul, together with your body; you are selling your soul which you have
no right to dispose of! You give your love to be outraged by every
drunkard! Love! But that's everything, you know, it's a priceless
diamond, it's a maiden's treasure, love--why, a man would be ready to
give his soul, to face death to gain that love. But how much is your
love worth now? You are sold, all of you, body and soul, and there is no
need to strive for love when you can have everything without love. And
you know there is no greater insult to a girl than that, do you
understand? To be sure, I have heard that they comfort you, poor fools,
they let you have lovers of your own here. But you know that's simply a
farce, that's simply a sham, it's just laughing at you, and you are
taken in by it! Why, do you suppose he really loves you, that lover of
yours? I don't believe it. How can he love you when he knows you may be
called away from him any minute? He would be a low fellow if he did!
Will he have a grain of respect for you? What have you in common with
him? He laughs at you and robs you--that is all his love amounts to! You
are lucky if he does not beat you. Very likely he does beat you, too.
Ask him, if you have got one, whether he will marry you. He will laugh
in your face, if he doesn't spit in it or give you a blow--though maybe
he is not worth a bad halfpenny himself. And for what have you ruined
your life, if you come to think of it? For the coffee they give you to
drink and the plentiful meals? But with what object are they feeding you
up? An honest girl couldn't swallow the food, for she would know what
she was being fed for. You are in debt here, and, of course, you will
always be in debt, and you will go on in debt to the end, till the
visitors here begin to scorn you. And that will soon happen, don't rely
upon your youth--all that flies by express train here, you know. You
will be kicked out. And not simply kicked out; long before that she'll
begin nagging at you, scolding you, abusing you, as though you had not
sacrificed your health for her, had not thrown away your youth and your
soul for her benefit, but as though you had ruined her, beggared her,
robbed her. And don't expect any one to take your part: the others, your
companions, will attack you, too, to win her favour, for all are in
slavery here, and have lost all conscience and pity here long ago. They
have become utterly vile, and nothing on earth is viler, more loathsome,
and more insulting than their abuse. And you are laying down everything
here, unconditionally, youth and health and beauty and hope, and at
twenty-two you will look like a woman of five-and-thirty, and you will
be lucky if you are not diseased, pray to God for that! No doubt you are
thinking now that you have a gay time and no work to do! Yet there is no
work harder or more dreadful in the world or ever has been. One would
think that the heart alone would be worn out with tears. And you won't
dare to say a word, not half a word when they drive you away from here;
you will go away as though you were to blame. You will change to another
house, then to a third, then somewhere else, till you come down at last
to the Haymarket. There you will be beaten at every turn; that is good
manners there, the visitors don't know how to be friendly without
beating you. You don't believe that it is so hateful there? Go and look
for yourself some time, you can see with your own eyes. Once, one New
Year's Day, I saw a woman at a door. They had turned her out as a joke,
to give her a taste of the frost because she had been crying so much,
and they shut the door behind her. At nine o'clock in the morning she
was already quite drunk, dishevelled, half-naked, covered with bruises,
her face was powdered, but she had a black eye, blood was trickling from
her nose and her teeth; some cabman had just given her a drubbing. She
was sitting on the stone steps, a salt fish of some sort was in her
hand; she was crying, wailing something about her luck and beating with
the fish on the steps, and cabmen and drunken soldiers were crowding in
the doorway taunting her. You don't believe that you will ever be like
that? I should be sorry to believe it, too, but how do you know; maybe
ten years, eight years ago that very woman with the salt fish came here
fresh as a cherub, innocent, pure, knowing no evil, blushing at every
word. Perhaps she was like you, proud, ready to take offence, not like
the others; perhaps she looked like a queen, and knew what happiness was
in store for the man who should love her and whom she should love. Do
you see how it ended? And what if at that very minute when she was
beating on the filthy steps with that fish, drunken and
dishevelled--what if at that very minute she recalled the pure early
days in her father's house, when she used to go to school and the
neighbour's son watched for her on the way, declaring that he would love
her as long as he lived, that he would devote his life to her, and when
they vowed to love one another for ever and be married as soon as they
were grown up! No, Liza, it would be happy for you if you were to die
soon of consumption in some corner, in some cellar like that woman just
now. In the hospital, do you say? You will be lucky if they take you,
but what if you are still of use to the madam here? Consumption is a
queer disease, it is not like fever. The patient goes on hoping till the
last minute and says he is all right. He deludes himself. And that just
suits your madam. Don't doubt it, that's how it is; you have sold your
soul, and what is more you owe money, so you daren't say a word. But
when you are dying, all will abandon you, all will turn away from you,
for then there will be nothing to get from you. What's more, they will
reproach you for cumbering the place, for being so long over dying.
However you beg you won't get a drink of water without abuse: 'Whenever
are you going off, you nasty hussy, you won't let us sleep with your
moaning, you make the gentlemen sick.' That's true, I have heard such
things said myself. They will thrust you dying into the filthiest corner
in the cellar--in the damp and darkness; what will your thoughts be,
lying there alone? When you die, strange hands will lay you out, with
grumbling and impatience; no one will bless you, no one will sigh for
you, they only want to get rid of you as soon as may be; they will buy a
coffin, take you to the grave as they did that poor woman to-day, and
celebrate your memory at the tavern. In the grave sleet, filth, wet
snow--no need to put themselves out for you--'Let her down, Vanuha; it's
just like her luck--even here, she is head-foremost, the hussy. Shorten
the cord, you rascal.' 'It's all right as it is.' 'All right, is it?
Why, she's on her side! She was a fellow-creature, after all! But, never
mind, throw the earth on her.' And they won't care to waste much time
quarrelling over you. They will scatter the wet blue clay as quick as
they can and go off to the tavern ... and there your memory on earth
will end; other women have children to go to their graves, fathers,
husbands. While for you neither tear, nor sigh, nor remembrance; no one
in the whole world will ever come to you, your name will vanish from the
face of the earth--as though you had never existed, never been born at
all! Nothing but filth and mud, however you knock at your coffin lid at
night, when the dead arise, however you cry: 'Let me out, kind people,
to live in the light of day! My life was no life at all; my life has
been thrown away like a dish-clout; it was drunk away in the tavern at
the Haymarket; let me out, kind people, to live in the world again.'"

And I worked myself up to such a pitch that I began to have a lump in my
throat myself, and ... and all at once I stopped, sat up in dismay, and
bending over apprehensively, began to listen with a beating heart. I had
reason to be troubled.

I had felt for some time that I was turning her soul upside down and
rending her heart, and--and the more I was convinced of it, the more
eagerly I desired to gain my object as quickly and as effectually as
possible. It was the exercise of my skill that carried me away; yet it
was not merely sport....

I knew I was speaking stiffly, artificially, even bookishly, in fact, I
could not speak except "like a book." But that did not trouble me: I
knew, I felt that I should be understood and that this very bookishness
might be an assistance. But now, having attained my effect, I was
suddenly panic-stricken. Never before had I witnessed such despair! She
was lying on her face, thrusting her face into the pillow and clutching
it in both hands. Her heart was being torn. Her youthful body was
shuddering all over as though in convulsions. Suppressed sobs rent her
bosom and suddenly burst out in weeping and wailing, then she pressed
closer into the pillow: she did not want any one here, not a living
soul, to know of her anguish and her tears. She bit the pillow, bit her
hand till it bled (I saw that afterwards), or, thrusting her fingers
into her dishevelled hair seemed rigid with the effort of restraint,
holding her breath and clenching her teeth. I began saying something,
begging her to calm herself, but felt that I did not dare; and all at
once, in a sort of cold shiver, almost in terror, began fumbling in the
dark, trying hurriedly to get dressed to go. It was dark: though I tried
my best I could not finish dressing quickly. Suddenly I felt a box of
matches and a candlestick with a whole candle in it. As soon as the room
was lighted up, Liza sprang up, sat up in bed, and with a contorted
face, with a half insane smile, looked at me almost senselessly. I sat
down beside her and took her hands; she came to herself, made an
impulsive movement towards me, would have caught hold of me, but did not
dare, and slowly bowed her head before me.

"Liza, my dear, I was wrong ... forgive me, my dear," I began, but she
squeezed my hand in her fingers so tightly that I felt I was saying the
wrong thing and stopped.

"This is my address, Liza, come to me."

"I will come," she answered resolutely, her head still bowed.

"But now I am going, good-bye ... till we meet again."

I got up; she, too, stood up and suddenly flushed all over, gave a
shudder, snatched up a shawl that was lying on a chair and muffled
herself in it to her chin. As she did this she gave another sickly
smile, blushed and looked at me strangely. I felt wretched; I was in
haste to get away--to disappear.

"Wait a minute," she said suddenly, in the passage just at the doorway,
stopping me with her hand on my overcoat. She put down the candle in hot
haste and ran off; evidently she had thought of something or wanted to
show me something. As she ran away she flushed, her eyes shone, and
there was a smile on her lips--what was the meaning of it? Against my
will I waited: she came back a minute later with an expression that
seemed to ask forgiveness for something. In fact, it was not the same
face, not the same look as the evening before: sullen, mistrustful and
obstinate. Her eyes now were imploring, soft, and at the same time
trustful, caressing, timid. The expression with which children look at
people they are very fond of, of whom they are asking a favour. Her eyes
were a light hazel, they were lovely eyes, full of life, and capable of
expressing love as well as sullen hatred.

Making no explanation, as though I, as a sort of higher being, must
understand everything without explanations, she held out a piece of
paper to me. Her whole face was positively beaming at that instant with
naïve, almost childish, triumph. I unfolded it. It was a letter to her
from a medical student or some one of that sort--a very high-flown and
flowery, but extremely respectful, love-letter. I don't recall the words
now, but I remember well that through the high-flown phrases there was
apparent a genuine feeling, which cannot be feigned. When I had finished
reading it I met her glowing, questioning, and childishly impatient eyes
fixed upon me. She fastened her eyes upon my face and waited impatiently
for what I should say. In a few words, hurriedly, but with a sort of joy
and pride, she explained to me that she had been to a dance somewhere in
a private house, a family of "very nice people, _who knew nothing_,
absolutely nothing, for she had only come here so lately and it had all
happened ... and she hadn't made up her mind to stay and was certainly
going away as soon as she had paid her debt ... and at that party there
had been the student who had danced with her all the evening. He had
talked to her, and it turned out that he had known her in old days at
Riga when he was a child, they had played together, but a very long time
ago--and he knew her parents, but _about this_ he knew nothing, nothing
whatever, and had no suspicion! And the day after the dance (three days
ago) he had sent her that letter through the friend with whom she had
gone to the party ... and ... well, that was all."

She dropped her shining eyes with a sort of bashfulness as she finished.

The poor girl was keeping that student's letter as a precious treasure,
and had run to fetch it, her only treasure, because she did not want me
to go away without knowing that she, too, was honestly and genuinely
loved; that she, too, was addressed respectfully. No doubt that letter
was destined to lie in her box and lead to nothing. But none the less, I
am certain that she would keep it all her life as a precious treasure,
as her pride and justification, and now at such a minute she had thought
of that letter and brought it with naïve pride to raise herself in my
eyes that I might see, that I, too, might think well of her. I said
nothing, pressed her hand and went out. I so longed to get away.... I
walked all the way home, in spite of the fact that the melting snow was
still falling in heavy flakes. I was exhausted, shattered, in
bewilderment. But behind the bewilderment the truth was already
gleaming. The loathsome truth.

VIII

It was some time, however, before I consented to recognize that truth.
Waking up in the morning after some hours of heavy, leaden sleep, and
immediately realizing all that had happened on the previous day, I was
positively amazed at my last night's _sentimentality_ with Liza, at all
those "outcries of horror and pity." "To think of having such an attack
of womanish hysteria, pah!" I concluded. And what did I thrust my
address upon her for? What if she comes? Let her come, though; it
doesn't matter.... But _obviously_, that was not now the chief and the
most important matter: I had to make haste and at all costs save my
reputation in the eyes of Zverkov and Simonov as quickly as possible;
that was the chief business. And I was so taken up that morning that I
actually forgot all about Liza.

First of all I had at once to repay what I had borrowed the day before
from Simonov. I resolved on a desperate measure: to borrow fifteen
roubles straight off from Anton Antonitch. As luck would have it he was
in the best of humours that morning, and gave it to me at once, on the
first asking. I was so delighted at this that, as I signed the I O U
with a swaggering air, I told him casually that the night before "I had
been keeping it up with some friends at the Hôtel de Paris; we were
giving a farewell party to a comrade, in fact, I might say a friend of
my childhood, and you know--a desperate rake, fearfully spoilt--of
course, he belongs to a good family, and has considerable means, a
brilliant career; he is witty, charming, a regular Lovelace, you
understand; we drank an extra 'half-dozen' and...."

And it went off all right; all this was uttered very easily,
unconstrainedly and complacently.

On reaching home I promptly wrote to Simonov.

To this hour I am lost in admiration when I recall the truly
gentlemanly, good-humoured, candid tone of my letter. With tact and
good-breeding, and, above all, entirely without superfluous words, I
blamed myself for all that had happened. I defended myself, "if I really
may be allowed to defend myself," by alleging that being utterly
unaccustomed to wine, I had been intoxicated with the first glass, which
I said, I had drunk before they arrived, while I was waiting for them at
the Hôtel de Paris between five and six o'clock. I begged Simonov's
pardon especially; I asked him to convey my explanations to all the
others, especially to Zverkov, whom "I seemed to remember as though in a
dream" I had insulted. I added that I would have called upon all of them
myself, but my head ached, and besides I had not the face to. I was
particularly pleased with a certain lightness, almost carelessness
(strictly within the bounds of politeness, however), which was apparent
in my style, and better than any possible arguments, gave them at once
to understand that I took rather an independent view of "all that
unpleasantness last night;" that I was by no means so utterly crushed as
you, my friends, probably imagine; but on the contrary, looked upon it
as a gentleman serenely respecting himself should look upon it. "On a
young hero's past no censure is cast!"

"There is actually an aristocratic playfulness about it!" I thought
admiringly, as I read over the letter. And it's all because I am an
intellectual and cultivated man! Another man in my place would not have
known how to extricate himself, but here I have got out of it and am as
jolly as ever again, and all because I am "a cultivated and educated man
of our day." And, indeed, perhaps, everything was due to the wine
yesterday. H'm! ... no, it was not the wine. I did not drink anything at
all between five and six when I was waiting for them. I had lied to
Simonov; I had lied shamelessly; and indeed I wasn't ashamed now....
Hang it all though, the great thing was that I was rid of it.

I put six roubles in the letter, sealed it up, and asked Apollon to take
it to Simonov. When he learned that there was money in the letter,
Apollon became more respectful and agreed to take it. Towards evening I
went out for a walk. My head was still aching and giddy after yesterday.
But as evening came on and the twilight grew denser, my impressions and,
following them, my thoughts, grew more and more different and confused.
Something was not dead within me, in the depths of my heart and
conscience it would not die, and it showed itself in acute depression.
For the most part I jostled my way through the most crowded business
streets, along Myeshtchansky Street, along Sadovy Street and in Yusupov
Garden. I always liked particularly sauntering along these streets in
the dusk, just when there were crowds of working people of all sorts
going home from their daily work, with faces looking cross with anxiety.
What I liked was just that cheap bustle, that bare prose. On this
occasion the jostling of the streets irritated me more than ever. I
could not make out what was wrong with me, I could not find the clue,
something seemed rising up continually in my soul, painfully, and
refusing to be appeased. I returned home completely upset, it was just
as though some crime were lying on my conscience.

The thought that Liza was coming worried me continually. It seemed queer
to me that of all my recollections of yesterday this tormented me, as it
were, especially, as it were, quite separately. Everything else I had
quite succeeded in forgetting by the evening; I dismissed it all and was
still perfectly satisfied with my letter to Simonov. But on this point I
was not satisfied at all. It was as though I were worried only by Liza.
"What if she comes," I thought incessantly, "well, it doesn't matter,
let her come! H'm! it's horrid that she should see, for instance, how I
live. Yesterday I seemed such a hero to her, while now, h'm! It's
horrid, though, that I have let myself go so, the room looks like a
beggar's. And I brought myself to go out to dinner in such a suit! And
my American leather sofa with the stuffing sticking out. And my
dressing-gown, which will not cover me, such tatters, and she will see
all this and she will see Apollon. That beast is certain to insult her.
He will fasten upon her in order to be rude to me. And I, of course,
shall be panic-stricken as usual, I shall begin bowing and scraping
before her and pulling my dressing-gown round me, I shall begin smiling,
telling lies. Oh, the beastliness! And it isn't the beastliness of it
that matters most! There is something more important, more loathsome,
viler! Yes, viler! And to put on that dishonest lying mask again!"...

When I reached that thought I fired up all at once.

"Why dishonest? How dishonest? I was speaking sincerely last night. I
remember there was real feeling in me, too. What I wanted was to excite
an honourable feeling in her.... Her crying was a good thing, it will
have a good effect."

Yet I could not feel at ease. All that evening, even when I had come
back home, even after nine o'clock, when I calculated that Liza could
not possibly come, she still haunted me, and what was worse, she came
back to my mind always in the same position. One moment out of all that
had happened last night stood vividly before my imagination; the moment
when I struck a match and saw her pale, distorted face, with its look of
torture. And what a pitiful, what an unnatural, what a distorted smile
she had at that moment! But I did not know then, that fifteen years
later I should still in my imagination see Liza, always with the
pitiful, distorted, inappropriate smile which was on her face at that
minute.

Next day I was ready again to look upon it all as nonsense, due to
over-excited nerves, and, above all, as _exaggerated_. I was always
conscious of that weak point of mine, and sometimes very much afraid of
it. "I exaggerate everything, that is where I go wrong," I repeated to
myself every hour. But, however, "Liza will very likely come all the
same," was the refrain with which all my reflections ended. I was so
uneasy that I sometimes flew into a fury: "She'll come, she is certain
to come!" I cried, running about the room, "if not to-day, she will come
to-morrow; she'll find me out! The damnable romanticism of these pure
hearts! Oh, the vileness--oh, the silliness--oh, the stupidity of these
'wretched sentimental souls!' Why, how fail to understand? How could one
fail to understand?..."

But at this point I stopped short, and in great confusion, indeed.

And how few, how few words, I thought, in passing, were needed; how
little of the idyllic (and affectedly, bookishly, artificially idyllic
too) had sufficed to turn a whole human life at once according to my
will. That's virginity, to be sure! Freshness of soil!

At times a thought occurred to me, to go to her, "to tell her all," and
beg her not to come to me. But this thought stirred such wrath in me
that I believed I should have crushed that "damned" Liza if she had
chanced to be near me at the time. I should have insulted her, have spat
at her, have turned her out, have struck her!

One day passed, however, another and another; she did not come and I
began to grow calmer. I felt particularly bold and cheerful after nine
o'clock, I even sometimes began dreaming, and rather sweetly: I, for
instance, became the salvation of Liza, simply through her coming to me
and my talking to her.... I develop her, educate her. Finally, I notice
that she loves me, loves me passionately. I pretend not to understand (I
don't know, however, why I pretend, just for effect, perhaps). At last
all confusion, transfigured, trembling and sobbing, she flings herself
at my feet and says that I am her saviour, and that she loves me better
than anything in the world. I am amazed, but.... "Liza," I say, "can you
imagine that I have not noticed your love, I saw it all, I divined it,
but I did not dare to approach you first, because I had an influence
over you and was afraid that you would force yourself, from gratitude,
to respond to my love, would try to rouse in your heart a feeling which
was perhaps absent, and I did not wish that ... because it would be
tyranny ... it would be indelicate (in short, I launch off at that point
into European, inexplicably lofty subtleties à la George Sand), but now,
now you are mine, you are my creation, you are pure, you are good, you
are my noble wife.

     'Into my house come bold and free,
      Its rightful mistress there to be.'"

Then we begin living together, go abroad and so on, and so on. In fact,
in the end it seemed vulgar to me myself, and I began putting out my
tongue at myself.

Besides, they won't let her out, "the hussy!" I thought. They don't let
them go out very readily, especially in the evening (for some reason I
fancied she would come in the evening, and at seven o'clock precisely).
Though she did say she was not altogether a slave there yet, and had
certain rights; so, h'm! Damn it all, she will come, she is sure to
come!

It was a good thing, in fact, that Apollon distracted my attention at
that time by his rudeness. He drove me beyond all patience! He was the
bane of my life, the curse laid upon me by Providence. We had been
squabbling continually for years, and I hated him. My God, how I hated
him! I believe I had never hated any one in my life as I hated him,
especially at some moments. He was an elderly, dignified man, who worked
part of his time as a tailor. But for some unknown reason he despised me
beyond all measure, and looked down upon me insufferably. Though,
indeed, he looked down upon every one. Simply to glance at that flaxen,
smoothly brushed head, at the tuft of hair he combed up on his forehead
and oiled with sunflower oil, at that dignified mouth, compressed into
the shape of the letter V, made one feel one was confronting a man who
never doubted of himself. He was a pedant, to the most extreme point,
the greatest pedant I had met on earth, and with that had a vanity only
befitting Alexander of Macedon. He was in love with every button on his
coat, every nail on his fingers--absolutely in love with them, and he
looked it! In his behaviour to me he was a perfect tyrant, he spoke very
little to me, and if he chanced to glance at me he gave me a firm,
majestically self-confident and invariably ironical look that drove me
sometimes to fury. He did his work with the air of doing me the greatest
favour. Though he did scarcely anything for me, and did not, indeed,
consider himself bound to do anything. There could be no doubt that he
looked upon me as the greatest fool on earth, and that "he did not get
rid of me" was simply that he could get wages from me every month. He
consented to do nothing for me for seven roubles a month. Many sins
should be forgiven me for what I suffered from him. My hatred reached
such a point that sometimes his very step almost threw me into
convulsions. What I loathed particularly was his lisp. His tongue must
have been a little too long or something of that sort, for he
continually lisped, and seemed to be very proud of it, imagining that it
greatly added to his dignity. He spoke in a slow, measured tone, with
his hands behind his back and his eyes fixed on the ground. He maddened
me particularly when he read aloud the psalms to himself behind his
partition. Many a battle I waged over that reading! But he was awfully
fond of reading aloud in the evenings, in a slow, even, sing-song voice,
as though over the dead. It is interesting that that is how he has
ended: he hires himself out to read the psalms over the dead, and at the
same time he kills rats and makes blacking. But at that time I could not
get rid of him, it was as though he were chemically combined with my
existence. Besides, nothing would have induced him to consent to leave
me. I could not live in furnished lodgings: my lodging was my private
solitude, my shell, my cave, in which I concealed myself from all
mankind, and Apollon seemed to me, for some reason, an integral part of
that flat, and for seven years I could not turn him away.

To be two or three days behind with his wages, for instance, was
impossible. He would have made such a fuss, I should not have known
where to hide my head. But I was so exasperated with every one during
those days, that I made up my mind for some reason and with some object
to _punish_ Apollon and not to pay him for a fortnight the wages that
were owing him. I had for a long time--for the last two years--been
intending to do this, simply in order to teach him not to give himself
airs with me, and to show him that if I liked I could withhold his
wages. I purposed to say nothing to him about it, and was purposely
silent indeed, in order to score off his pride and force him to be the
first to speak of his wages. Then I would take the seven roubles out of
a drawer, show him I have the money put aside on purpose, but that I
won't, I won't, I simply won't pay him his wages, I won't just because
that is "what I wish," because "I am master, and it is for me to
decide," because he has been disrespectful, because he has been rude;
but if he were to ask respectfully I might be softened and give it to
him, otherwise he might wait another fortnight, another three weeks, a
whole month....

But angry as I was, yet he got the better of me. I could not hold out
for four days. He began as he always did begin in such cases, for there
had been such cases already, there had been attempts (and it may be
observed I knew all this beforehand, I knew his nasty tactics by heart).
He would begin by fixing upon me an exceedingly severe stare, keeping it
up for several minutes at a time, particularly on meeting me or seeing
me out of the house. If I held out and pretended not to notice these
stares, he would, still in silence, proceed to further tortures. All at
once, _à propos_ of nothing, he would walk softly and smoothly into my
room, when I was pacing up and down or reading, stand at the door, one
hand behind his back and one foot behind the other, and fix upon me a
stare more than severe, utterly contemptuous. If I suddenly asked him
what he wanted, he would make me no answer, but continue staring at me
persistently for some seconds, then, with a peculiar compression of his
lips and a most significant air, deliberately turn round and
deliberately go back to his room. Two hours later he would come out
again and again present himself before me in the same way. It had
happened that in my fury I did not even ask him what he wanted, but
simply raised my head sharply and imperiously and began staring back at
him. So we stared at one another for two minutes; at last he turned with
deliberation and dignity and went back again for two hours.

If I were still not brought to reason by all this, but persisted in my
revolt, he would suddenly begin sighing while he looked at me, long,
deep sighs as though measuring by them the depths of my moral
degradation, and, of course, it ended at last by his triumphing
completely: I raged and shouted, but still was forced to do what he
wanted.

This time the usual staring manoeuvres had scarcely begun when I lost
my temper and flew at him in a fury. I was irritated beyond endurance
apart from him.

"Stay," I cried, in a frenzy, as he was slowly and silently turning,
with one hand behind his back, to go to his room, "stay! Come back, come
back, I tell you!" and I must have bawled so unnaturally, that he turned
round and even looked at me with some wonder. However, he persisted in
saying nothing, and that infuriated me.

"How dare you come and look at me like that without being sent for?
Answer!"

After looking at me calmly for half a minute, he began turning round
again.

"Stay!" I roared, running up to him, "don't stir! There. Answer, now:
what did you come in to look at?"

"If you have any order to give me it's my duty to carry it out," he
answered, after another silent pause, with a slow, measured lisp,
raising his eyebrows and calmly twisting his head from one side to
another, all this with exasperating composure.

"That's not what I am asking you about, you torturer!" I shouted,
turning crimson with anger. "I'll tell you why you came here myself: you
see, I don't give you your wages, you are so proud you don't want to bow
down and ask for it, and so you come to punish me with your stupid
stares, to worry me and you have no sus...pic...ion how stupid it
is--stupid, stupid, stupid, stupid!"...

He would have turned round again without a word, but I seized him.

"Listen," I shouted to him. "Here's the money, do you see, here it is"
(I took it out of the table drawer); "here's the seven roubles complete,
but you are not going to have it, you ... are ... not ... going ... to
... have it until you come respectfully with bowed head to beg my
pardon. Do you hear?"

"That cannot be," he answered, with the most unnatural self-confidence.

"It shall be so," I said, "I give you my word of honour, it shall be!"

"And there's nothing for me to beg your pardon for," he went on, as
though he had not noticed my exclamations at all. "Why, besides, you
called me a 'torturer,' for which I can summon you at the police-station
at any time for insulting behaviour."

"Go, summon me," I roared, "go at once, this very minute, this very
second! You are a torturer all the same! a torturer!"

But he merely looked at me, then turned, and regardless of my loud calls
to him, he walked to his room with an even step and without looking
round.

"If it had not been for Liza nothing of this would have happened," I
decided inwardly. Then, after waiting a minute, I went myself behind his
screen with a dignified and solemn air, though my heart was beating
slowly and violently.

"Apollon," I said quietly and emphatically, though I was breathless, "go
at once without a minute's delay and fetch the police-officer."

He had meanwhile settled himself at his table, put on his spectacles and
taken up some sewing. But, hearing my order, he burst into a guffaw.

"At once, go this minute! Go on, or else you can't imagine what will
happen."

"You are certainly out of your mind," he observed, without even raising
his head, lisping as deliberately as ever and threading his needle.
"Whoever heard of a man sending for the police against himself? And as
for being frightened--you are upsetting yourself about nothing, for
nothing will come of it."

"Go!" I shrieked, clutching him by the shoulder. I felt I should strike
him in a minute.

But I did not notice the door from the passage softly and slowly open at
that instant and a figure come in, stop short, and begin staring at us
in perplexity. I glanced, nearly swooned with shame, and rushed back to
my room. There, clutching at my hair with both hands, I leaned my head
against the wall and stood motionless in that position.

Two minutes later I heard Apollon's deliberate footsteps. "There is some
woman asking for you," he said, looking at me with peculiar severity.
Then he stood aside and let in Liza. He would not go away, but stared at
us sarcastically.

"Go away, go away," I commanded in desperation. At that moment my clock
began whirring and wheezing and struck seven.

IX

     "Into my house come bold and free,
      Its rightful mistress there to be."

I stood before her crushed, crestfallen, revoltingly confused, and I
believe I smiled as I did my utmost to wrap myself in the skirts of my
ragged wadded dressing-gown--exactly as I had imagined the scene not
long before in a fit of depression. After standing over us for a couple
of minutes Apollon went away, but that did not make me more at ease.
What made it worse was that she, too, was overwhelmed with confusion,
more so, in fact, than I should have expected. At the sight of me, of
course.

"Sit down," I said mechanically, moving a chair up to the table, and I
sat down on the sofa. She obediently sat down at once and gazed at me
open-eyed, evidently expecting something from me at once. This naïveté
of expectation drove me to fury, but I restrained myself.

She ought to have tried not to notice, as though everything had been as
usual, while instead of that, she ... and I dimly felt that I should
make her pay dearly for _all this_.

"You have found me in a strange position, Liza," I began, stammering and
knowing that this was the wrong way to begin. "No, no, don't imagine
anything," I cried, seeing that she had suddenly flushed. "I am not
ashamed of my poverty.... On the contrary I look with pride on my
poverty. I am poor but honourable.... One can be poor and honourable," I
muttered. "However ... would you like tea?"...

"No," she was beginning.

"Wait a minute."

I leapt up and ran to Apollon. I had to get out of the room somehow.

"Apollon," I whispered in feverish haste, flinging down before him the
seven roubles which had remained all the time in my clenched fist, "here
are your wages, you see I give them to you; but for that you must come
to my rescue: bring me tea and a dozen rusks from the restaurant. If you
won't go, you'll make me a miserable man! You don't know what this woman
is.... This is--everything! You may be imagining something.... But you
don't know what that woman is!"...

Apollon, who had already sat down to his work and put on his spectacles
again, at first glanced askance at the money without speaking or putting
down his needle; then, without paying the slightest attention to me or
making any answer he went on busying himself with his needle, which he
had not yet threaded. I waited before him for three minutes with my arms
crossed _à la Napoléon_. My temples were moist with sweat. I was pale, I
felt it. But, thank God, he must have been moved to pity, looking at me.
Having threaded his needle he deliberately got up from his seat,
deliberately moved back his chair, deliberately took off his spectacles,
deliberately counted the money, and finally asking me over his shoulder:
"Shall I get a whole portion?" deliberately walked out of the room. As I
was going back to Liza, the thought occurred to me on the way: shouldn't
I run away just as I was in my dressing-gown, no matter where, and then
let happen what would.

I sat down again. She looked at me uneasily. For some minutes we were
silent.

"I will kill him," I shouted suddenly, striking the table with my fist
so that the ink spurted out of the inkstand.

"What are you saying!" she cried, starting.

"I will kill him! kill him!" I shrieked, suddenly striking the table in
absolute frenzy, and at the same time fully understanding how stupid it
was to be in such a frenzy. "You don't know, Liza, what that torturer is
to me. He is my torturer.... He has gone now to fetch some rusks;
he...."

And suddenly I burst into tears. It was an hysterical attack. How
ashamed I felt in the midst of my sobs; but still I could not restrain
them.

She was frightened.

"What is the matter? What is wrong?" she cried, fussing about me.

"Water, give me water, over there!" I muttered in a faint voice, though
I was inwardly conscious that I could have got on very well without
water and without muttering in a faint voice. But I was, what is called,
_putting it on_, to save appearances, though the attack was a genuine
one.

She gave me water, looking at me in bewilderment. At that moment Apollon
brought in the tea. It suddenly seemed to me that this commonplace,
prosaic tea was horribly undignified and paltry after all that had
happened, and I blushed crimson. Liza looked at Apollon with positive
alarm. He went out without a glance at either of us.

"Liza, do you despise me?" I asked, looking at her fixedly, trembling
with impatience to know what she was thinking.

She was confused, and did not know what to answer.

"Drink your tea," I said to her angrily. I was angry with myself, but,
of course, it was she who would have to pay for it. A horrible spite
against her suddenly surged up in my heart; I believe I could have
killed her. To revenge myself on her I swore inwardly not to say a word
to her all the time. "She is the cause of it all," I thought.

Our silence lasted for five minutes. The tea stood on the table; we did
not touch it. I had got to the point of purposely refraining from
beginning in order to embarrass her further; it was awkward for her to
begin alone. Several times she glanced at me with mournful perplexity. I
was obstinately silent. I was, of course, myself the chief sufferer,
because I was fully conscious of the disgusting meanness of my spiteful
stupidity, and yet at the same time I could not restrain myself.

"I want to ... get away ... from there altogether," she began, to break
the silence in some way, but, poor girl, that was just what she ought
not to have spoken about at such a stupid moment to a man so stupid as I
was. My heart positively ached with pity for her tactless and
unnecessary straightforwardness. But something hideous at once stifled
all compassion in me; it even provoked me to greater venom. I did not
care what happened. Another five minutes passed.

"Perhaps I am in your way," she began timidly, hardly audibly, and was
getting up.

But as soon as I saw this first impulse of wounded dignity I positively
trembled with spite, and at once burst out.

"Why have you come to me, tell me that, please?" I began, gasping for
breath and regardless of logical connection in my words. I longed to
have it all out at once, at one burst; I did not even trouble how to
begin. "Why have you come? Answer, answer," I cried, hardly knowing what
I was doing. "I'll tell you, my good girl, why you have come. You've
come because I talked sentimental stuff to you then. So now you are soft
as butter and longing for fine sentiments again. So you may as well know
that I was laughing at you then. And I am laughing at you now. Why are
you shuddering? Yes, I was laughing at you! I had been insulted just
before, at dinner, by the fellows who came that evening before me. I
came to you, meaning to thrash one of them, an officer; but I didn't
succeed, I didn't find him; I had to avenge the insult on some one to
get back my own again; you turned up, I vented my spleen on you and
laughed at you. I had been humiliated, so I wanted to humiliate; I had
been treated like a rag, so I wanted to show my power.... That's what it
was, and you imagined I had come there on purpose to save you. Yes? You
imagined that? You imagined that?"

I knew that she would perhaps be muddled and not take it all in exactly,
but I knew, too, that she would grasp the gist of it, very well indeed.
And so, indeed, she did. She turned white as a handkerchief, tried to
say something, and her lips worked painfully; but she sank on a chair as
though she had been felled by an axe. And all the time afterwards she
listened to me with her lips parted and her eyes wide open, shuddering
with awful terror. The cynicism, the cynicism of my words overwhelmed
her....

"Save you!" I went on, jumping up from my chair and running up and down
the room before her. "Save you from what? But perhaps I am worse than
you myself. Why didn't you throw it in my teeth when I was giving you
that sermon: 'But what did you come here yourself for? was it to read us
a sermon?' Power, power was what I wanted then, sport was what I wanted,
I wanted to wring out your tears, your humiliation, your hysteria--that
was what I wanted then! Of course, I couldn't keep it up then, because I
am a wretched creature, I was frightened, and, the devil knows why, gave
you my address in my folly. Afterwards, before I got home, I was cursing
and swearing at you because of that address, I hated you already because
of the lies I had told you. Because I only like playing with words, only
dreaming, but, do you know, what I really want is that you should all go
to hell. That is what I want. I want peace; yes, I'd sell the whole
world for a farthing, straight off, so long as I was left in peace. Is
the world to go to pot, or am I to go without my tea? I say that the
world may go to pot for me so long as I always get my tea. Did you know
that, or not? Well, anyway, I know that I am a blackguard, a scoundrel,
an egoist, a sluggard. Here I have been shuddering for the last three
days at the thought of your coming. And do you know what has worried me
particularly for these three days? That I posed as such a hero to you,
and now you would see me in a wretched torn dressing-gown, beggarly,
loathsome. I told you just now that I was not ashamed of my poverty; so
you may as well know that I am ashamed of it; I am more ashamed of it
than of anything, more afraid of it than of being found out if I were a
thief, because I am as vain as though I had been skinned and the very
air blowing on me hurt. Surely by now you must realize that I shall
never forgive you for having found me in this wretched dressing-gown,
just as I was flying at Apollon like a spiteful cur. The saviour, the
former hero, was flying like a mangy, unkempt sheep-dog at his lackey,
and the lackey was jeering at him! And I shall never forgive you for the
tears I could not help shedding before you just now, like some silly
woman put to shame! And for what I am confessing to you now, I shall
never forgive _you_ either! Yes--you must answer for it all because you
turned up like this, because I am a blackguard, because I am the
nastiest, stupidest, absurdest and most envious of all the worms on
earth, who are not a bit better than I am, but, the devil knows why, are
never put to confusion; while I shall always be insulted by every louse,
that is my doom! And what is it to me that you don't understand a word
of this! And what do I care, what do I care about you, and whether you
go to ruin there or not? Do you understand? How I shall hate you now
after saying this, for having been here and listening. Why, it's not
once in a lifetime a man speaks out like this, and then it is in
hysterics!... What more do you want? Why do you still stand confronting
me, after all this? Why are you worrying me? Why don't you go?"

But at this point a strange thing happened. I was so accustomed to think
and imagine everything from books, and to picture everything in the
world to myself just as I had made it up in my dreams beforehand, that I
could not all at once take in this strange circumstance. What happened
was this: Liza, insulted and crushed by me, understood a great deal more
than I imagined. She understood from all this what a woman understands
first of all, if she feels genuine love, that is, that I was myself
unhappy.

The frightened and wounded expression on her face was followed first by
a look of sorrowful perplexity. When I began calling myself a scoundrel
and a blackguard and my tears flowed (the tirade was accompanied
throughout by tears) her whole face worked convulsively. She was on the
point of getting up and stopping me; when I finished she took no notice
of my shouting: "Why are you here, why don't you go away?" but realized
only that it must have been very bitter to me to say all this. Besides,
she was so crushed, poor girl; she considered herself infinitely beneath
me; how could she feel anger or resentment? She suddenly leapt up from
her chair with an irresistible impulse and held out her hands, yearning
towards me, though still timid and not daring to stir.... At this point
there was a revulsion in my heart, too. Then she suddenly rushed to me,
threw her arms round me and burst into tears. I, too, could not restrain
myself, and sobbed as I never had before.

"They won't let me.... I can't be good!" I managed to articulate; then I
went to the sofa, fell on it face downwards, and sobbed on it for a
quarter of an hour in genuine hysterics. She came close to me, put her
arms round me and stayed motionless in that position. But the trouble
was that the hysterics could not go on for ever, and (I am writing the
loathsome truth) lying face downwards on the sofa with my face thrust
into my nasty leather pillow, I began by degrees to be aware of a
far-away, involuntary but irresistible feeling that it would be awkward
now for me to raise my head and look Liza straight in the face. Why was
I ashamed? I don't know, but I was ashamed. The thought, too, came into
my overwrought brain that our parts now were completely changed, that
she was now the heroine, while I was just such a crushed and humiliated
creature as she had been before me that night--four days before.... And
all this came into my mind during the minutes I was lying on my face on
the sofa.

My God! surely I was not envious of her then.

I don't know, to this day I cannot decide, and at the time, of course, I
was still less able to understand what I was feeling than now. I cannot
get on without domineering and tyrannizing over some one, but ... there
is no explaining anything by reasoning and so it is useless to reason.

I conquered myself, however, and raised my head; I had to do so sooner
or later ... and I am convinced to this day that it was just because I
was ashamed to look at her that another feeling was suddenly kindled and
flamed up in my heart ... a feeling of mastery and possession. My eyes
gleamed with passion, and I gripped her hands tightly. How I hated her
and how I was drawn to her at that minute! The one feeling intensified
the other. It was almost like an act of vengeance. At first there was a
look of amazement, even of terror on her face, but only for one instant.
She warmly and rapturously embraced me.

X

A quarter of an hour later I was rushing up and down the room in
frenzied impatience, from minute to minute I went up to the screen and
peeped through the crack at Liza. She was sitting on the ground with her
head leaning against the bed, and must have been crying. But she did not
go away, and that irritated me. This time she understood it all. I had
insulted her finally, but ... there's no need to describe it. She
realized that my outburst of passion had been simply revenge, a fresh
humiliation, and that to my earlier, almost causeless hatred was added
now a _personal hatred_, born of envy.... Though I do not maintain
positively that she understood all this distinctly; but she certainly
did fully understand that I was a despicable man, and what was worse,
incapable of loving her.

I know I shall be told that this is incredible--but it is incredible to
be as spiteful and stupid as I was; it may be added that it was strange
I should not love her, or at any rate, appreciate her love. Why is it
strange? In the first place, by then I was incapable of love, for I
repeat, with me loving meant tyrannizing and showing my moral
superiority. I have never in my life been able to imagine any other sort
of love, and have nowadays come to the point of sometimes thinking that
love really consists in the right--freely given by the beloved
object--to tyrannize over her.

Even in my underground dreams I did not imagine love except as a
struggle. I began it always with hatred and ended it with moral
subjugation, and afterwards I never knew what to do with the subjugated
object. And what is there to wonder at in that, since I had succeeded in
so corrupting myself, since I was so out of touch with "real life," as
to have actually thought of reproaching her, and putting her to shame
for having come to me to hear "fine sentiments"; and did not even guess
that she had come not to hear fine sentiments, but to love me, because
to a woman all reformation, all salvation from any sort of ruin, and all
moral renewal is included in love and can only show itself in that form.

I did not hate her so much, however, when I was running about the room
and peeping through the crack in the screen. I was only insufferably
oppressed by her being here. I wanted her to disappear. I wanted
"peace," to be left alone in my underground world. Real life oppressed
me with its novelty so much that I could hardly breathe.

But several minutes passed and she still remained, without stirring, as
though she were unconscious. I had the shamelessness to tap softly at
the screen as though to remind her.... She started, sprang up, and flew
to seek her kerchief, her hat, her coat, as though making her escape
from me.... Two minutes later she came from behind the screen and looked
with heavy eyes at me. I gave a spiteful grin, which was forced,
however, to _keep up appearances_, and I turned away from her eyes.

"Good-bye," she said, going towards the door.

I ran up to her, seized her hand, opened it, thrust something in it and
closed it again. Then I turned at once and dashed away in haste to the
other corner of the room to avoid seeing, anyway....

I did mean a moment since to tell a lie--to write that I did this
accidentally, not knowing what I was doing through foolishness, through
losing my head. But I don't want to lie, and so I will say straight out
that I opened her hand and put the money in it ... from spite. It came
into my head to do this while I was running up and down the room and she
was sitting behind the screen. But this I can say for certain: though I
did that cruel thing purposely, it was not an impulse from the heart,
but came from my evil brain. This cruelty was so affected, so purposely
made up, so completely a product of the brain, of books, that I could
not even keep it up a minute--first I dashed away to avoid seeing her,
and then in shame and despair rushed after Liza. I opened the door in
the passage and began listening.

"Liza! Liza!" I cried on the stairs, but in a low voice, not boldly.

There was no answer, but I fancied I heard her footsteps, lower down on
the stairs.

"Liza!" I cried, more loudly.

No answer. But at that minute I heard the stiff outer glass door open
heavily with a creak and slam violently, the sound echoed up the stairs.

She had gone. I went back to my room in hesitation. I felt horribly
oppressed.

I stood still at the table, beside the chair on which she had sat and
looked aimlessly before me. A minute passed, suddenly I started;
straight before me on the table I saw.... In short, I saw a crumpled
blue five-rouble note, the one I had thrust into her hand a minute
before. It was the same note; it could be no other, there was no other
in the flat. So she had managed to fling it from her hand on the table
at the moment when I had dashed into the further corner.

Well! I might have expected that she would do that. Might I have
expected it? No, I was such an egoist, I was so lacking in respect for
my fellow-creatures that I could not even imagine she would do so. I
could not endure it. A minute later I flew like a madman to dress,
flinging on what I could at random and ran headlong after her. She could
not have got two hundred paces away when I ran out into the street.

It was a still night and the snow was coming down in masses and falling
almost perpendicularly, covering the pavement and the empty street as
though with a pillow. There was no one in the street, no sound was to be
heard. The street lamps gave a disconsolate and useless glimmer. I ran
two hundred paces to the cross-roads and stopped short.

Where had she gone? And why was I running after her?

Why? To fall down before her, to sob with remorse, to kiss her feet, to
entreat her forgiveness! I longed for that, my whole breast was being
rent to pieces, and never, never shall I recall that minute with
indifference. But--what for? I thought. Should I not begin to hate her,
perhaps, even to-morrow, just because I had kissed her feet to-day?
Should I give her happiness? Had I not recognized that day, for the
hundredth time, what I was worth? Should I not torture her?

I stood in the snow, gazing into the troubled darkness and pondered
this.

"And will it not be better?" I mused fantastically, afterwards at home,
stifling the living pang of my heart with fantastic dreams. "Will it not
be better that she should keep the resentment of the insult for ever?
Resentment--why, it is purification; it is a most stinging and painful
consciousness! To-morrow I should have defiled her soul and have
exhausted her heart, while now the feeling of insult will never die in
her heart, and however loathsome the filth awaiting her--the feeling of
insult will elevate and purify her ... by hatred ... h'm! ... perhaps,
too, by forgiveness.... Will all that make things easier for her
though?..."

And, indeed, I will ask on my own account here, an idle question: which
is better--cheap happiness or exalted sufferings? Well, which is better?

So I dreamed as I sat at home that evening, almost dead with the pain in
my soul. Never had I endured such suffering and remorse, yet could there
have been the faintest doubt when I ran out from my lodging that I
should turn back half-way? I never met Liza again and I have heard
nothing of her. I will add, too, that I remained for a long time
afterwards pleased with the phrase about the benefit from resentment and
hatred in spite of the fact that I almost fell ill from misery.

       *     *     *     *     *

Even now, so many years later, all this is somehow a very evil memory. I
have many evil memories now, but ... hadn't I better end my "Notes"
here? I believe I made a mistake in beginning to write them, anyway I
have felt ashamed all the time I've been writing this story; so it's
hardly literature so much as a corrective punishment. Why, to tell long
stories, showing how I have spoiled my life through morally rotting in
my corner, through lack of fitting environment, through divorce from
real life, and rankling spite in my underground world, would certainly
not be interesting; a novel needs a hero, and all the traits for an
anti-hero are _expressly_ gathered together here, and what matters most,
it all produces an unpleasant impression, for we are all divorced from
life, we are all cripples, every one of us, more or less. We are so
divorced from it that we feel at once a sort of loathing for real life,
and so cannot bear to be reminded of it. Why, we have come almost to
looking upon real life as an effort, almost as hard work, and we are all
privately agreed that it is better in books. And why do we fuss and fume
sometimes? Why are we perverse and ask for something else? We don't know
what ourselves. It would be the worse for us if our petulant prayers
were answered. Come, try, give any one of us, for instance, a little
more independence, untie our hands, widen the spheres of our activity,
relax the control and we ... yes, I assure you ... we should be begging
to be under control again at once. I know that you will very likely be
angry with me for that, and will begin shouting and stamping. Speak for
yourself, you will say, and for your miseries in your underground holes,
and don't dare to say all of us--excuse me, gentlemen, I am not
justifying myself with that "all of us." As for what concerns me in
particular I have only in my life carried to an extreme what you have
not dared to carry half-way, and what's more, you have taken your
cowardice for good sense, and have found comfort in deceiving
yourselves. So that perhaps, after all, there is more life in me than in
you. Look into it more carefully! Why, we don't even know what living
means now, what it is, and what it is called? Leave us alone without
books and we shall be lost and in confusion at once. We shall not know
what to join on to, what to cling to, what to love and what to hate,
what to respect and what to despise. We are oppressed at being men--men
with a real individual body and blood, we are ashamed of it, we think it
a disgrace and try to contrive to be some sort of impossible generalized
man. We are stillborn, and for generations past have been begotten, not
by living fathers, and that suits us better and better. We are
developing a taste for it. Soon we shall contrive to be born somehow
from an idea. But enough; I don't want to write more from "Underground."

    [_The notes of this paradoxalist do not end here, however.
    He could not refrain from going on with them, but it seems
    to us that we may stop here._]

A FAINT HEART

A STORY

Under the same roof in the same flat on the same fourth storey lived two
young men, colleagues in the service, Arkady Ivanovitch Nefedevitch and
Vasya Shumkov.... The author of course, feels the necessity of
explaining to the reader why one is given his full title, while the
other's name is abbreviated, if only that such a mode of expression may
not be regarded as unseemly and rather familiar. But, to do so, it would
first be necessary to explain and describe the rank and years and
calling and duty in the service, and even, indeed, the characters of the
persons concerned; and since there are so many writers who begin in that
way, the author of the proposed story, solely in order to be unlike them
(that is, some people will perhaps say, entirely on account of his
boundless vanity), decides to begin straightaway with action. Having
completed this introduction, he begins.

Towards six o'clock on New Year's Eve Shumkov returned home. Arkady
Ivanovitch, who was lying on the bed, woke up and looked at his friend
with half-closed eyes. He saw that Vasya had on his very best trousers
and a very clean shirt front. That, of course, struck him. "Where had
Vasya to go like that? And he had not dined at home either!" Meanwhile,
Shumkov had lighted a candle, and Arkady Ivanovitch guessed immediately
that his friend was intending to wake him accidentally. Vasya did, in
fact, clear his throat twice, walked twice up and down the room, and at
last, quite accidentally, let the pipe, which he had begun filling in
the corner by the stove, slip out of his hands. Arkady Ivanovitch
laughed to himself.

"Vasya, give over pretending!" he said.

"Arkasha, you are not asleep?"

"I really cannot say for certain; it seems to me I am not."

"Oh, Arkasha! How are you, dear boy? Well, brother! Well, brother!...
You don't know what I have to tell you!"

"I certainly don't know; come here."

As though expecting this, Vasya went up to him at once, not at all
anticipating, however, treachery from Arkady Ivanovitch. The other
seized him very adroitly by the arms, turned him over, held him down,
and began, as it is called, "strangling" his victim, and apparently this
proceeding afforded the lighthearted Arkady Ivanovitch great
satisfaction.

"Caught!" he cried. "Caught!"

"Arkasha, Arkasha, what are you about? Let me go. For goodness sake, let
me go, I shall crumple my dress coat!"

"As though that mattered! What do you want with a dress coat? Why were
you so confiding as to put yourself in my hands? Tell me, where have you
been? Where have you dined?"

"Arkasha, for goodness sake, let me go!"

"Where have you dined?"

"Why, it's about that I want to tell you."

"Tell away, then."

"But first let me go."

"Not a bit of it, I won't let you go till you tell me!"

"Arkasha! Arkasha! But do you understand, I can't--it is utterly
impossible!" cried Vasya, helplessly wriggling out of his friend's
powerful clutches, "you know there are subjects!"

"How--subjects?"...

"Why, subjects that you can't talk about in such a position without
losing your dignity; it's utterly impossible; it would make it
ridiculous, and this is not a ridiculous matter, it is important."

"Here, he's going in for being important! That's a new idea! You tell me
so as to make me laugh, that's how you must tell me; I don't want
anything important; or else you are no true friend of mine. Do you call
yourself a friend? Eh?"

"Arkasha, I really can't!"

"Well, I don't want to hear...."

"Well, Arkasha!" began Vasya, lying across the bed and doing his utmost
to put all the dignity possible into his words. "Arkasha! If you like, I
will tell you; only...."

"Well, what?..."

"Well, I am engaged to be married!"

Without uttering another word Arkady Ivanovitch took Vasya up in his
arms like a baby, though the latter was by no means short, but rather
long and thin, and began dexterously carrying him up and down the room,
pretending that he was hushing him to sleep.

"I'll put you in your swaddling clothes, Master Bridegroom," he kept
saying. But seeing that Vasya lay in his arms, not stirring or uttering
a word, he thought better of it at once, and reflecting that the joke
had gone too far, set him down in the middle of the room and kissed him
on the cheek in the most genuine and friendly way.

"Vasya, you are not angry?"

"Arkasha, listen...."

"Come, it's New Year's Eve."

"Oh, I'm all right; but why are you such a madman, such a scatterbrain?
How many times I have told you: Arkasha, it's really not funny, not
funny at all!"

"Oh, well, you are not angry?"

"Oh, I'm all right; am I ever angry with any one! But you have wounded
me, do you understand?"

"But how have I wounded you? In what way?"

"I come to you as to a friend, with a full heart, to pour out my soul to
you, to tell you of my happiness...."

"What happiness? Why don't you speak?..."

"Oh, well, I am going to get married!" Vasya answered with vexation, for
he really was a little exasperated.

"You! You are going to get married! So you really mean it?" Arkasha
cried at the top of his voice. "No, no ... but what's this? He talks
like this and his tears are flowing.... Vasya, my little Vasya, don't,
my little son! Is it true, really?" And Arkady Ivanovitch flew to hug
him again.

"Well, do you see, how it is now?" said Vasya. "You are kind, of course,
you are a friend, I know that. I come to you with such joy, such
rapture, and all of a sudden I have to disclose all the joy of my heart,
all my rapture struggling across the bed, in an undignified way.... You
understand, Arkasha," Vasya went on, half laughing. "You see, it made it
seem comic: and in a sense I did not belong to myself at that minute. I
could not let this be slighted.... What's more, if you had asked me her
name, I swear, I would sooner you killed me than have answered you."

"But, Vasya, why did you not speak! You should have told me all about it
sooner and I would not have played the fool!" cried Arkady Ivanovitch in
genuine despair.

"Come, that's enough, that's enough! Of course, that's how it is.... You
know what it all comes from--from my having a good heart. What vexes me
is, that I could not tell you as I wanted to, making you glad and happy,
telling you nicely and initiating you into my secret properly....
Really, Arkasha, I love you so much that I believe if it were not for
you I shouldn't be getting married, and, in fact, I shouldn't be living
in this world at all!"

Arkady Ivanovitch, who was excessively sentimental, cried and laughed at
once as he listened to Vasya. Vasya did the same. Both flew to embrace
one another again and forgot the past.

"How is it--how is it? Tell me all about it, Vasya! I am astonished,
excuse me, brother, but I am utterly astonished; it's a perfect
thunderbolt, by Jove! Nonsense, nonsense, brother, you have made it up,
you've really made it up, you are telling fibs!" cried Arkady
Ivanovitch, and he actually looked into Vasya's face with genuine
uncertainty, but seeing in it the radiant confirmation of a positive
intention of being married as soon as possible, threw himself on the bed
and began rolling from side to side in ecstasy till the walls shook.

"Vasya, sit here," he said at last, sitting down on the bed.

"I really don't know, brother, where to begin!"

They looked at one another in joyful excitement.

"Who is she, Vasya?"

"The Artemyevs!..." Vasya pronounced, in a voice weak with emotion.

"No?"

"Well, I did buzz into your ears about them at first, and then I shut
up, and you noticed nothing. Ah, Arkasha, if you knew how hard it was to
keep it from you; but I was afraid, afraid to speak! I thought it would
all go wrong, and you know I was in love, Arkasha! My God! my God! You
see this was the trouble," he began, pausing continually from agitation,
"she had a suitor a year ago, but he was suddenly ordered somewhere; I
knew him--he was a fellow, bless him! Well, he did not write at all, he
simply vanished. They waited and waited, wondering what it meant....
Four months ago he suddenly came back married, and has never set foot
within their doors! It was coarse--shabby! And they had no one to stand
up for them. She cried and cried, poor girl, and I fell in love with her
... indeed, I had been in love with her long before, all the time! I
began comforting her, and was always going there.... Well, and I really
don't know how it has all come about, only she came to love me; a week
ago I could not restrain myself, I cried, I sobbed, and told her
everything--well, that I love her--everything, in fact!... 'I am ready
to love you, too, Vassily Petrovitch, only I am a poor girl, don't make
a mock of me; I don't dare to love any one.' Well, brother, you
understand! You understand?... On that we got engaged on the spot. I
kept thinking and thinking and thinking and thinking, I said to her,
'How are we to tell your mother?' She said, 'It will be hard, wait a
little; she's afraid, and now maybe she would not let you have me; she
keeps crying, too.' Without telling her I blurted it out to her mother
to-day. Lizanka fell on her knees before her, I did the same ... well,
she gave us her blessing. Arkasha, Arkasha! My dear fellow! We will live
together. No, I won't part from you for anything."

"Vasya, look at you as I may, I can't believe it. I don't believe it, I
swear. I keep feeling as though.... Listen, how can you be engaged to be
married?... How is it I didn't know, eh? Do you know, Vasya, I will
confess it to you now. I was thinking of getting married myself; but now
since you are going to be married, it is just as good! Be happy, be
happy!..."

"Brother, I feel so lighthearted now, there is such sweetness in my soul
..." said Vasya, getting up and pacing about the room excitedly. "Don't
you feel the same? We shall be poor, of course, but we shall be happy;
and you know it is not a wild fancy; our happiness is not a fairy tale;
we shall be happy in reality!..."

"Vasya, Vasya, listen!"

"What?" said Vasya, standing before Arkady Ivanovitch.

"The idea occurs to me; I am really afraid to say it to you.... Forgive
me, and settle my doubts. What are you going to live on? You know I am
delighted that you are going to be married, of course, I am delighted,
and I don't know what to do with myself, but--what are you going to live
on? Eh?"

"Oh, good Heavens! What a fellow you are, Arkasha!" said Vasya, looking
at Nefedevitch in profound astonishment. "What do you mean? Even her old
mother, even she did not think of that for two minutes when I put it all
clearly before her. You had better ask what they are living on! They
have five hundred roubles a year between the three of them: the pension,
which is all they have, since the father died. She and her old mother
and her little brother, whose schooling is paid for out of that income
too--that is how they live! It's you and I are the capitalists! Some
good years it works out to as much as seven hundred for me."

"I say, Vasya, excuse me; I really ... you know I ... I am only thinking
how to prevent things going wrong. How do you mean, seven hundred? It's
only three hundred...."

"Three hundred!... And Yulian Mastakovitch? Have you forgotten him?"

"Yulian Mastakovitch? But you know that's uncertain, brother; that's not
the same thing as three hundred roubles of secure salary, where every
rouble is a friend you can trust. Yulian Mastakovitch, of course, he's a
great man, in fact, I respect him, I understand him, though he is so far
above us; and, by Jove, I love him, because he likes you and gives you
something for your work, though he might not pay you, but simply order a
clerk to work for him--but you will agree, Vasya.... Let me tell you,
too, I am not talking nonsense. I admit in all Petersburg you won't find
a handwriting like your handwriting, I am ready to allow that to you,"
Nefedevitch concluded, not without enthusiasm. "But, God forbid! you may
displease him all at once, you may not satisfy him, your work with him
may stop, he may take another clerk--all sorts of things may happen, in
fact! You know, Yulian Mastakovitch may be here to-day and gone
to-morrow...."

"Well, Arkasha, the ceiling might fall on our heads this minute."

"Oh, of course, of course, I mean nothing."

"But listen, hear what I have got to say--you know, I don't see how he
can part with me.... No, hear what I have to say! hear what I have to
say! You see, I perform all my duties punctually; you know how kind he
is, you know, Arkasha, he gave me fifty roubles in silver to-day!"

"Did he really, Vasya? A bonus for you?"

"Bonus, indeed, it was out of his own pocket. He said: 'Why, you have
had no money for five months, brother, take some if you want it; thank
you, I am satisfied with you.'... Yes, really! 'Yes, you don't work for
me for nothing,' said he. He did, indeed, that's what he said. It
brought tears into my eyes, Arkasha. Good Heavens, yes!"

"I say, Vasya, have you finished copying those papers?..."

"No.... I haven't finished them yet."

"Vas...ya! My angel! What have you been doing?"

"Listen, Arkasha, it doesn't matter, they are not wanted for another two
days, I have time enough...."

"How is it you have not done them?"

"That's all right, that's all right. You look so horror-stricken that
you turn me inside out and make my heart ache! You are always going on
at me like this! He's for ever crying out: Oh, oh, oh!!! Only consider,
what does it matter? Why, I shall finish it, of course I shall finish
it...."

"What if you don't finish it?" cried Arkady, jumping up, "and he has
made you a present to-day! And you going to be married.... Tut, tut,
tut!..."

"It's all right, it's all right," cried Shumkov, "I shall sit down
directly, I shall sit down this minute."

"How did you come to leave it, Vasya?"

"Oh, Arkasha! How could I sit down to work! Have I been in a fit state?
Why, even at the office I could scarcely sit still, I could scarcely
bear the beating of my heart.... Oh! oh! Now I shall work all night, and
I shall work all to-morrow night, and the night after, too--and I shall
finish it."

"Is there a great deal left?"

"Don't hinder me, for goodness' sake, don't hinder me; hold your
tongue."

Arkady Ivanovitch went on tip-toe to the bed and sat down, then suddenly
wanted to get up, but was obliged to sit down again, remembering that he
might interrupt him, though he could not sit still for excitement: it
was evident that the news had thoroughly upset him, and the first thrill
of delight had not yet passed off. He glanced at Shumkov; the latter
glanced at him, smiled, and shook his finger at him, then, frowning
severely (as though all his energy and the success of his work depended
upon it), fixed his eyes on the papers.

It seemed that he, too, could not yet master his emotion; he kept
changing his pen, fidgeting in his chair, re-arranging things, and
setting to work again, but his hand trembled and refused to move.

"Arkasha, I've talked to them about you," he cried suddenly, as though
he had just remembered it.

"Yes," cried Arkasha, "I was just wanting to ask you that. Well?"

"Well, I'll tell you everything afterwards. Of course, it is my own
fault, but it quite went out of my head that I didn't mean to say
anything till I had written four pages, but I thought of you and of
them. I really can't write, brother, I keep thinking about you...."

Vasya smiled.

A silence followed.

"Phew! What a horrid pen," cried Shumkov, flinging it on the table in
vexation. He took another.

"Vasya! listen! one word...."

"Well, make haste, and for the last time."

"Have you a great deal left to do?"

"Ah, brother!" Vasya frowned, as though there could be nothing more
terrible and murderous in the whole world than such a question. "A lot,
a fearful lot."

"Do you know, I have an idea----"

"What?"

"Oh, never mind, never mind; go on writing."

"Why, what? what?"

"It's past six, Vasya."

Here Nefedevitch smiled and winked slyly at Vasya, though with a certain
timidity, not knowing how Vasya would take it.

"Well, what is it?" said Vasya, throwing down his pen, looking him
straight in the face and actually turning pale with excitement.

"Do you know what?"

"For goodness sake, what is it?"

"I tell you what, you are excited, you won't get much done.... Stop,
stop, stop! I have it, I have it--listen," said Nefedevitch, jumping up
from the bed in delight, preventing Vasya from speaking and doing his
utmost to ward off all objections; "first of all you must get calm, you
must pull yourself together, mustn't you?"

"Arkasha, Arkasha!" cried Vasya, jumping up from his chair, "I will work
all night, I will, really."

"Of course, of course, you won't go to bed till morning."

"I won't go to bed, I won't go to bed at all."

"No, that won't do, that won't do: you must sleep, go to bed at five. I
will call you at eight. To-morrow is a holiday; you can sit and scribble
away all day long.... Then the night and--but have you a great deal left
to do?"

"Yes, look, look!"

Vasya, quivering with excitement and suspense, showed the manuscript:
"Look!"

"I say, brother, that's not much."

"My dear fellow, there's some more of it," said Vasya, looking very
timidly at Nefedevitch, as though the decision whether he was to go or
not depended upon the latter.

"How much?"

"Two signatures."

"Well, what's that? Come, I tell you what. We shall have time to finish
it, by Jove, we shall!"

"Arkasha!"

"Vasya, listen! To-night, on New Year's Eve, every one is at home with
his family. You and I are the only ones without a home or relations....
Oh, Vasya!"

Nefedevitch clutched Vasya and hugged him in his leonine arms.

"Arkasha, it's settled."

"Vasya, boy, I only wanted to say this. You see, Vasya--listen,
bandy-legs, listen!..."

Arkady stopped, with his mouth open, because he could not speak for
delight. Vasya held him by the shoulders, gazed into his face and moved
his lips, as though he wanted to speak for him.

"Well," he brought out at last.

"Introduce me to them to-day."

"Arkady, let us go to tea there. I tell you what, I tell you what. We
won't even stay to see in the New Year, we'll come away earlier," cried
Vasya, with genuine inspiration.

"That is, we'll go for two hours, neither more nor less...."

"And then separation till I have finished...."

"Vasya, boy!"

"Arkady!"

Three minutes later Arkady was dressed in his best. Vasya did nothing
but brush himself, because he had been in such haste to work that he had
not changed his trousers.

They hurried out into the street, each more pleased than the other.
Their way lay from the Petersburg Side to Kolomna. Arkady Ivanovitch
stepped out boldly and vigorously, so that from his walk alone one could
see how glad he was at the good fortune of his friend, who was more and
more radiant with happiness. Vasya trotted along with shorter steps,
though his deportment was none the less dignified. Arkady Ivanovitch, in
fact, had never seen him before to such advantage. At that moment he
actually felt more respect for him, and Vasya's physical defect, of
which the reader is not yet aware (Vasya was slightly deformed), which
always called forth a feeling of loving sympathy in Arkady Ivanovitch's
kind heart, contributed to the deep tenderness the latter felt for him
at this moment, a tenderness of which Vasya was in every way worthy.
Arkady Ivanovitch felt ready to weep with happiness, but he restrained
himself.

"Where are you going, where are you going, Vasya? It is nearer this
way," he cried, seeing that Vasya was making in the direction of
Voznesenky.

"Hold your tongue, Arkasha."

"It really is nearer, Vasya."

"Do you know what, Arkasha?" Vasya began mysteriously, in a voice
quivering with joy, "I tell you what, I want to take Lizanka a little
present."

"What sort of present?"

"At the corner here, brother, is Madame Leroux's, a wonderful shop."

"Well."

"A cap, my dear, a cap; I saw such a charming little cap to-day. I
inquired, I was told it was the _façon Manon Lescaut_--a delightful
thing. Cherry-coloured ribbons, and if it is not dear ... Arkasha, even
if it is dear...."

"I think you are superior to any of the poets, Vasya. Come along."

They ran along, and two minutes later went into the shop. They were met
by a black-eyed Frenchwoman with curls, who, from the first glance at
her customers, became as joyous and happy as they, even happier, if one
may say so. Vasya was ready to kiss Madame Leroux in his delight....

"Arkasha," he said in an undertone, casting a casual glance at all the
grand and beautiful things on little wooden stands on the huge table,
"lovely things! What's that? What's this? This one, for instance, this
little sweet, do you see?" Vasya whispered, pointing to a charming cap
further away, which was not the one he meant to buy, because he had
already from afar descried and fixed his eyes upon the real, famous one,
standing at the other end. He looked at it in such a way that one might
have supposed some one was going to steal it, or as though the cap
itself might take wings and fly into the air just to prevent Vasya from
obtaining it.

"Look," said Arkady Ivanovitch, pointing to one, "I think that's
better."

"Well, Arkasha, that does you credit; I begin to respect you for your
taste," said Vasya, resorting to cunning with Arkasha in the tenderness
of his heart, "your cap is charming, but come this way."

"Where is there a better one, brother?"

"Look; this way."

"That," said Arkady, doubtfully.

But when Vasya, incapable of restraining himself any longer, took it
from the stand from which it seemed to fly spontaneously, as though
delighted at falling at last into the hands of so good a customer, and
they heard the rustle of its ribbons, ruches and lace, an unexpected cry
of delight broke from the powerful chest of Arkady Ivanovitch. Even
Madame Leroux, while maintaining her incontestable dignity and
pre-eminence in matters of taste, and remaining mute from condescension,
rewarded Vasya with a smile of complete approbation, everything in her
glance, gesture and smile saying at once: "Yes, you have chosen rightly,
and are worthy of the happiness which awaits you."

"It has been dangling its charms in coy seclusion," cried Vasya,
transferring his tender feelings to the charming cap. "You have been
hiding on purpose, you sly little pet!" And he kissed it, that is the
air surrounding it, for he was afraid to touch his treasure.

"Retiring as true worth and virtue," Arkady added enthusiastically,
quoting humorously from a comic paper he had read that morning. "Well,
Vasya?"

"Hurrah, Arkasha! You are witty to-day. I predict you will make a
sensation, as women say. Madame Leroux, Madame Leroux!"

"What is your pleasure?"

"Dear Madame Leroux."

Madame Leroux looked at Arkady Ivanovitch and smiled condescendingly.

"You wouldn't believe how I adore you at this moment.... Allow me to
give you a kiss...." And Vasya kissed the shopkeeper.

She certainly at that moment needed all her dignity to maintain her
position with such a madcap. But I contend that the innate, spontaneous
courtesy and grace with which Madame Leroux received Vasya's enthusiasm,
was equally befitting. She forgave him, and how tactfully, how
graciously, she knew how to behave in the circumstances. How could she
have been angry with Vasya?

"Madame Leroux, how much?"

"Five roubles in silver," she answered, straightening herself with a new
smile.

"And this one, Madame Leroux?" said Arkady Ivanovitch, pointing to his
choice.

"That one is eight roubles."

"There, you see--there, you see! Come, Madame Leroux, tell me which is
nicer, more graceful, more charming, which of them suits you best?"

"The second is richer, but your choice _c'est plus coquet_."

"Then we will take it."

Madame Leroux took a sheet of very delicate paper, pinned it up, and the
paper with the cap wrapped in it seemed even lighter than the paper
alone. Vasya took it carefully, almost holding his breath, bowed to
Madame Leroux, said something else very polite to her and left the shop.

"I am a lady's man, I was born to be a lady's man," said Vasya, laughing
a little noiseless, nervous laugh and dodging the passers-by, whom he
suspected of designs for crushing his precious cap.

"Listen, Arkady, brother," he began a minute later, and there was a note
of triumph, of infinite affection in his voice. "Arkady, I am so happy,
I am so happy!"

"Vasya! how glad I am, dear boy!"

"No, Arkasha, no. I know that there is no limit to your affection for
me; but you cannot be feeling one-hundredth part of what I am feeling at
this moment. My heart is so full, so full! Arkasha, I am not worthy of
such happiness. I feel that, I am conscious of it. Why has it come to
me?" he said, his voice full of stifled sobs. "What have I done to
deserve it? Tell me. Look what lots of people, what lots of tears, what
sorrow, what work-a-day life without a holiday, while I, I am loved by a
girl like that, I.... But you will see her yourself immediately, you
will appreciate her noble heart. I was born in a humble station, now I
have a grade in the service and an independent income--my salary. I was
born with a physical defect, I am a little deformed. See, she loves me
as I am. Yulian Mastakovitch was so kind, so attentive, so gracious
to-day; he does not often talk to me; he came up to me: 'Well, how goes
it, Vasya' (yes, really, he called me Vasya), 'are you going to have a
good time for the holiday, eh?' he laughed.

"'Well, the fact is, Your Excellency, I have work to do,' but then I
plucked up courage and said: 'and maybe I shall have a good time, too,
Your Excellency.' I really said it. He gave me the money, on the spot,
then he said a couple of words more to me. Tears came into my eyes,
brother, I actually cried, and he, too, seemed touched, he patted me on
the shoulder, and said: 'Feel always, Vasya, as you feel this now.'"

Vasya paused for an instant. Arkady Ivanovitch turned away, and he, too,
wiped away a tear with his fist.

"And, and ..." Vasya went on, "I have never spoken to you of this,
Arkady.... Arkady, you make me so happy with your affection, without you
I could not live,--no, no, don't say anything, Arkady, let me squeeze
your hand, let me ... tha...ank ... you...." Again Vasya could not
finish.

Arkady Ivanovitch longed to throw himself on Vasya's neck, but as they
were crossing the road and heard almost in their ears a shrill: "Hi!
there!" they ran frightened and excited to the pavement.

Arkady Ivanovitch was positively relieved. He set down Vasya's outburst
of gratitude to the exceptional circumstances of the moment. He was
vexed. He felt that he had done so little for Vasya hitherto. He felt
actually ashamed of himself when Vasya began thanking him for so little.
But they had all their lives before them, and Arkady Ivanovitch breathed
more freely.

The Artemyevs had quite given up expecting them. The proof of it was
that they had already sat down to tea! And the old, it seems, are
sometimes more clear-sighted than the young, even when the young are so
exceptional. Lizanka had very earnestly maintained, "He isn't coming, he
isn't coming, Mamma; I feel in my heart he is not coming;" while her
mother on the contrary declared "that she had a feeling that he would
certainly come, that he would not stay away, that he would run round,
that he could have no office work now, on New Year's Eve." Even as
Lizanka opened the door she did not in the least expect to see them, and
greeted them breathlessly, with her heart throbbing like a captured
bird's, flushing and turning as red as a cherry, a fruit which she
wonderfully resembled. Good Heavens, what a surprise it was! What a
joyful "Oh!" broke from her lips. "Deceiver! My darling!" she cried,
throwing her arms round Vasya's neck. But imagine her amazement, her
sudden confusion: just behind Vasya, as though trying to hide behind his
back, stood Arkady Ivanovitch, a trifle out of countenance. It must be
admitted that he was awkward in the company of women, very awkward
indeed, in fact on one occasion something occurred ... but of that later.
You must put yourself in his place, however. There was nothing to laugh
at; he was standing in the entry, in his goloshes and overcoat, and in a
cap with flaps over the ears, which he would have hastened to pull off,
but he had, all twisted round in a hideous way, a yellow knitted scarf,
which, to make things worse, was knotted at the back. He had to
disentangle all this, to take it off as quickly as possible, to show
himself to more advantage, for there is no one who does not prefer to
show himself to advantage. And then Vasya, vexatious insufferable Vasya,
of course always the same dear kind Vasya, but now insufferable,
ruthless Vasya. "Here," he shouted, "Lizanka, I have brought you my
Arkady? What do you think of him? He is my best friend, embrace him,
kiss him, Lizanka, give him a kiss in advance; afterwards--you will know
him better--you can take it back again."

Well, what, I ask you, was Arkady Ivanovitch to do? And he had only
untwisted half of the scarf so far. I really am sometimes ashamed of
Vasya's excess of enthusiasm; it is, of course, the sign of a good
heart, but ... it's awkward, not nice!

At last both went in.... The mother was unutterably delighted to make
Arkady Ivanovitch's acquaintance, "she had heard so much about him, she
had...." But she did not finish. A joyful "Oh!" ringing musically
through the room interrupted her in the middle of a sentence. Good
Heavens! Lizanka was standing before the cap which had suddenly been
unfolded before her gaze; she clasped her hands with the utmost
simplicity, smiling such a smile.... Oh, Heavens! why had not Madame
Leroux an even lovelier cap?

Oh, Heavens! but where could you find a lovelier cap? It was quite
first-rate. Where could you get a better one? I mean it seriously. This
ingratitude on the part of lovers moves me, in fact, to indignation and
even wounds me a little. Why, look at it for yourself, reader, look,
what could be more beautiful than this little love of a cap? Come, look
at it.... But, no, no, my strictures are uncalled for; they had by now
all agreed with me; it had been a momentary aberration; the blindness,
the delirium of feeling; I am ready to forgive them.... But then you
must look.... You must excuse me, kind reader, I am still talking about
the cap: made of tulle, light as a feather, a broad cherry-coloured
ribbon covered with lace passing between the tulle and the ruche, and at
the back two wide long ribbons--they would fall down a little below the
nape of the neck.... All that the cap needed was to be tilted a little
to the back of the head; come, look at it; I ask you, after that ... but
I see you are not looking ... you think it does not matter. You are
looking in a different direction.... You are looking at two big tears,
big as pearls, that rose in two jet black eyes, quivered for one instant
on the eyelashes, and then dropped on the ethereal tulle of which Madame
Leroux's artistic masterpiece was composed.... And again I feel vexed,
those two tears were scarcely a tribute to the cap.... No, to my mind,
such a gift should be given in cool blood, as only then can its full
worth be appreciated. I am, I confess, dear reader, entirely on the side
of the cap.

They sat down--Vasya with Lizanka and the old mother with Arkady
Ivanovitch; they began to talk, and Arkady Ivanovitch did himself
credit, I am glad to say that for him. One would hardly, indeed, have
expected it of him. After a couple of words about Vasya he most
successfully turned the conversation to Yulian Mastakovitch, his patron.
And he talked so cleverly, so cleverly that the subject was not
exhausted for an hour. You ought to have seen with what dexterity, what
tact, Arkady Ivanovitch touched upon certain peculiarities of Yulian
Mastakovitch which directly or indirectly affected Vasya. The mother was
fascinated, genuinely fascinated; she admitted it herself; she purposely
called Vasya aside, and said to him that his friend was a most excellent
and charming young man, and, what was of most account, such a serious,
steady young man. Vasya almost laughed aloud with delight. He remembered
how the serious Arkady had tumbled him on his bed for a quarter of an
hour. Then the mother signed to Vasya to follow her quietly and
cautiously into the next room. It must be admitted that she treated
Lizanka rather unfairly: she behaved treacherously to her daughter, in
the fullness of her heart, of course, and showed Vasya on the sly the
present Lizanka was preparing to give him for the New Year. It was a
paper-case, embroidered in beads and gold in a very choice design: on
one side was depicted a stag, absolutely lifelike, running swiftly, and
so well done! On the other side was the portrait of a celebrated
General, also an excellent likeness. I cannot describe Vasya's raptures.
Meanwhile, time was not being wasted in the parlour. Lizanka went
straight up to Arkady Ivanovitch. She took his hand, she thanked him for
something, and Arkady Ivanovitch gathered that she was referring to her
precious Vasya. Lizanka was, indeed, deeply touched: she had heard that
Arkady Ivanovitch was such a true friend of her betrothed, so loved him,
so watched over him, guiding him at every step with helpful advice, that
she, Lizanka, could hardly help thanking him, could not refrain from
feeling grateful, and hoping that Arkady Ivanovitch might like her, if
only half as well as Vasya. Then she began questioning him as to whether
Vasya was careful of his health, expressed some apprehensions in regard
to his marked impulsiveness of character, and his lack of knowledge of
men and practical life; she said that she would in time watch over him
religiously, that she would take care of and cherish his lot, and
finally, she hoped that Arkady Ivanovitch would not leave them, but
would live with them.

"We three shall live like one," she cried, with extremely naïve
enthusiasm.

But it was time to go. They tried, of course, to keep them, but Vasya
answered point blank that it was impossible. Arkady Ivanovitch said the
same. The reason was, of course, inquired into, and it came out at once
that there was work to be done entrusted to Vasya by Yulian
Mastakovitch, urgent, necessary, dreadful work, which must be handed in
on the morning of the next day but one, and that it was not only
unfinished, but had been completely laid aside. The mamma sighed when
she heard of this, while Lizanka was positively scared, and hurried
Vasya off in alarm. The last kiss lost nothing from this haste; though
brief and hurried it was only the more warm and ardent. At last they
parted and the two friends set off home.

Both began at once confiding to each other their impressions as soon as
they found themselves in the street. And could they help it? Indeed,
Arkady Ivanovitch was in love, desperately in love, with Lizanka. And to
whom could he better confide his feelings than to Vasya, the happy man
himself. And so he did; he was not bashful, but confessed everything at
once to Vasya. Vasya laughed heartily and was immensely delighted, and
even observed that this was all that was needed to make them greater
friends than ever. "You have guessed my feelings, Vasya," said Arkady
Ivanovitch. "Yes, I love her as I love you; she will be my good angel as
well as yours, for the radiance of your happiness will be shed on me,
too, and I can bask in its warmth. She will keep house for me too,
Vasya; my happiness will be in her hands. Let her keep house for me as
she will for you. Yes, friendship for you is friendship for her; you are
not separable for me now, only I shall have two beings like you instead
of one...." Arkady paused in the fullness of his feelings, while Vasya
was shaken to the depths of his being by his friend's words. The fact
is, he had never expected anything of the sort from Arkady. Arkady
Ivanovitch was not very great at talking as a rule, he was not fond of
dreaming, either; now he gave way to the liveliest, freshest,
rainbow-tinted day-dreams. "How I will protect and cherish you both," he
began again. "To begin with, Vasya, I will be godfather to all your
children, every one of them; and secondly, Vasya, we must bestir
ourselves about the future. We must buy furniture, and take a lodging so
that you and she and I can each have a little room to ourselves. Do you
know, Vasya, I'll run about to-morrow and look at the notices, on the
gates! Three ... no, two rooms, we should not need more. I really
believe, Vasya, I talked nonsense this morning, there will be money
enough; why, as soon as I glanced into her eyes I calculated at once
that there would be enough to live on. It will all be for her. Oh, how
we will work! Now, Vasya, we might venture up to twenty-five roubles for
rent. A lodging is everything, brother. Nice rooms ... and at once a man
is cheerful, and his dreams are of the brightest hues. And, besides,
Lizanka will keep the purse for both of us: not a farthing will be
wasted. Do you suppose I would go to a restaurant? What do you take me
for? Not on any account. And then we shall get a bonus and reward, for
we shall be zealous in the service--oh! how we shall work, like oxen
toiling in the fields.... Only fancy," and Arkady Ivanovitch's voice was
faint with pleasure, "all at once and quite unexpected, twenty-five or
thirty roubles.... Whenever there's an extra, there'll be a cap or a
scarf or a pair of little stockings. She must knit me a scarf; look what
a horrid one I've got, the nasty yellow thing, it did me a bad turn
to-day! And you wore a nice one, Vasya, to introduce me while I had my
head in a halter.... Though never mind that now. And look here, I
undertake all the silver. I am bound to give you some little
present,--that will be an honour, that will flatter my vanity.... My
bonuses won't fail me, surely; you don't suppose they would give them to
Skorohodov? No fear, they won't be landed in that person's pocket. I'll
buy you silver spoons, brother, good knives--not silver knives, but
thoroughly good ones; and a waistcoat, that is a waistcoat for myself. I
shall be best man, of course. Only now, brother, you must keep at it,
you must keep at it. I shall stand over you with a stick, brother,
to-day and to-morrow and all night; I shall worry you to work. Finish,
make haste and finish, brother. And then again to spend the evening, and
then again both of us happy; we will go in for loto. We will spend the
evening there--oh, it's jolly! Oh, the devil! How, vexing it is I can't
help you. I should like to take it and write it all for you.... Why is
it our handwriting is not alike?"

"Yes," answered Vasya. "Yes, I must make haste. I think it must be
eleven o'clock; we must make haste.... To work!" And saying this, Vasya,
who had been all the time alternately smiling and trying to interrupt
with some enthusiastic rejoinder the flow of his friend's feelings, and
had, in short, been showing the most cordial response, suddenly
subsided, sank into silence, and almost ran along the street. It seemed
as though some burdensome idea had suddenly chilled his feverish head;
he seemed all at once dispirited.

Arkady Ivanovitch felt quite uneasy; he scarcely got an answer to his
hurried questions from Vasya, who confined himself to a word or two,
sometimes an irrelevant exclamation.

"Why, what is the matter with you, Vasya?" he cried at last, hardly able
to keep up with him. "Can you really be so uneasy?"

"Oh, brother, that's enough chatter!" Vasya answered, with vexation.

"Don't be depressed, Vasya--come, come," Arkady interposed. "Why, I have
known you write much more in a shorter time! What's the matter? You've
simply a talent for it! You can write quickly in an emergency; they are
not going to lithograph your copy. You've plenty of time!... The only
thing is that you are excited now, and preoccupied, and the work won't
go so easily."

Vasya made no reply, or muttered something to himself, and they both ran
home in genuine anxiety.

Vasya sat down to the papers at once. Arkady Ivanovitch was quiet and
silent; he noiselessly undressed and went to bed, keeping his eyes fixed
on Vasya.... A sort of panic came over him.... "What is the matter with
him?" he thought to himself, looking at Vasya's face that grew whiter
and whiter, at his feverish eyes, at the anxiety that was betrayed in
every movement he made, "why, his hand is shaking ... what a stupid! Why
did I not advise him to sleep for a couple of hours, till he had slept
off his nervous excitement, any way." Vasya had just finished a page, he
raised his eyes, glanced casually at Arkady and at once, looking down,
took up his pen again.

"Listen, Vasya," Arkady Ivanovitch began suddenly, "wouldn't it be best
to sleep a little now? Look, you are in a regular fever."

Vasya glanced at Arkady with vexation, almost with anger, and made no
answer.

"Listen, Vasya, you'll make yourself ill."

Vasya at once changed his mind. "How would it be to have tea, Arkady?"
he said.

"How so? Why?"

"It will do me good. I am not sleepy, I'm not going to bed! I am going
on writing. But now I should like to rest and have a cup of tea, and the
worst moment will be over."

"First-rate, brother Vasya, delightful! Just so. I was wanting to
propose it myself. And I can't think why it did not occur to me to do
so. But I say, Mavra won't get up, she won't wake for anything...."

"True."

"That's no matter, though," cried Arkady Ivanovitch, leaping out of bed.
"I will set the samovar myself. It won't be the first time...."

Arkady Ivanovitch ran to the kitchen and set to work to get the samovar;
Vasya meanwhile went on writing. Arkady Ivanovitch, moreover, dressed
and ran out to the baker's, so that Vasya might have something to
sustain him for the night. A quarter of an hour later the samovar was on
the table. They began drinking tea, but conversation flagged. Vasya
still seemed preoccupied.

"To-morrow," he said at last, as though he had just thought of it, "I
shall have to take my congratulations for the New Year...."

"You need not go at all."

"Oh yes, brother, I must," said Vasya.

"Why, I will sign the visitors' book for you everywhere.... How can you?
You work to-morrow. You must work to-night, till five o'clock in the
morning, as I said, and then get to bed. Or else you will be good for
nothing to-morrow. I'll wake you at eight o'clock, punctually."

"But will it be all right, your signing for me?" said Vasya, half
assenting.

"Why, what could be better? Everyone does it."

"I am really afraid."

"Why, why?"

"It's all right, you know, with other people, but Yulian Mastakovitch
... he has been so kind to me, you know, Arkasha, and when he notices
it's not my own signature----"

"Notices! why, what a fellow you are, really, Vasya! How could he
notice?... Come, you know I can imitate your signature awfully well, and
make just the same flourish to it, upon my word I can. What nonsense!
Who would notice?"

Vasya, made no reply, but emptied his glass hurriedly.... Then he shook
his head doubtfully.

"Vasya, dear boy! Ah, if only we succeed! Vasya, what's the matter with
you, you quite frighten me! Do you know, Vasya, I am not going to bed
now, I am not going to sleep! Show me, have you a great deal left?"

Vasya gave Arkady such a look that his heart sank, and his tongue failed
him.

"Vasya, what is the matter? What are you thinking? Why do you look like
that?"

"Arkady, I really must go to-morrow to wish Yulian Mastakovitch a happy
New Year."

"Well, go then!" said Arkady, gazing at him open-eyed, in uneasy
expectation. "I say, Vasya, do write faster; I am advising you for your
good, I really am! How often Yulian Mastakovitch himself has said that
what he likes particularly about your writing is its legibility. Why, it
is all that Skoroplehin cares for, that writing should be good and
distinct like a copy, so as afterwards to pocket the paper and take it
home for his children to copy; he can't buy copybooks, the blockhead!
Yulian Mastakovitch is always saying, always insisting: 'Legible,
legible, legible!'... What is the matter? Vasya, I really don't know
how to talk to you ... it quite frightens me ... you crush me with your
depression."

"It's all right, it's all right," said Vasya, and he fell back in his
chair as though fainting. Arkady was alarmed.

"Will you have some water? Vasya! Vasya!"

"Don't, don't," said Vasya, pressing his hand. "I am all right, I only
feel sad, I can't tell why. Better talk of something else; let me forget
it."

"Calm yourself, for goodness' sake, calm yourself, Vasya. You will
finish it all right, on my honour, you will. And even if you don't
finish, what will it matter? You talk as though it were a crime!"

"Arkady," said Vasya, looking at his friend with such meaning that
Arkady was quite frightened, for Vasya had never been so agitated
before.... "If I were alone, as I used to be.... No! I don't mean that.
I keep wanting to tell you as a friend, to confide in you.... But why
worry you, though?... You see, Arkady, to some much is given, others do
a little thing as I do. Well, if gratitude, appreciation, is expected of
you ... and you can't give it?"

"Vasya, I don't understand you in the least."

"I have never been ungrateful," Vasya went on softly, as though speaking
to himself, "but if I am incapable of expressing all I feel, it seems as
though ... it seems, Arkady, as though I am really ungrateful, and
that's killing me."

"What next, what next! As though gratitude meant nothing more than your
finishing that copy in time? Just think what you are saying, Vasya? Is
that the whole expression of gratitude?"

Vasya sank into silence at once, and looked open-eyed at Arkady, as
though his unexpected argument had settled all his doubts. He even
smiled, but the same melancholy expression came back to his face at
once. Arkady, taking this smile as a sign that all his uneasiness was
over, and the look that succeeded it as an indication that he was
determined to do better, was greatly relieved.

"Well, brother Arkasha, you will wake up," said Vasya, "keep an eye on
me; if I fall asleep it will be dreadful. I'll set to work now....
Arkasha?"

"What?"

"Oh, it's nothing, I only ... I meant...."

Vasya settled himself, and said no more, Arkady got into bed. Neither of
them said one word about their friends, the Artemyevs. Perhaps both of
them felt that they had been a little to blame, and that they ought not
to have gone for their jaunt when they did. Arkady soon fell asleep,
still worried about Vasya. To his own surprise he woke up exactly at
eight o'clock in the morning. Vasya was asleep in his chair with the pen
in his hand, pale and exhausted; the candle had burnt out. Mavra was
busy getting the samovar ready in the kitchen.

"Vasya, Vasya!" Arkady cried in alarm, "when did you fall asleep?"

Vasya opened his eyes and jumped up from his chair.

"Oh!" he cried, "I must have fallen asleep...."

He flew to the papers--everything was right; all were in order; there
was not a blot of ink, nor spot of grease from the candle on them.

"I think I must have fallen asleep about six o'clock," said Vasya. "How
cold it is in the night! Let us have tea, and I will go on again...."

"Do you feel better?"

"Yes, yes, I'm all right, I'm all right now."

"A happy New Year to you, brother Vasya."

"And to you too, brother, the same to you, dear boy."

They embraced each other. Vasya's chin was quivering and his eyes were
moist. Arkady Ivanovitch was silent, he felt sad. They drank their tea
hastily.

"Arkady, I've made up my mind, I am going myself to Yulian
Mastakovitch."

"Why, he wouldn't notice----"

"But my conscience feels ill at ease, brother."

"But you know it's for his sake you are sitting here; it's for his sake
you are wearing yourself out."

"Enough!"

"Do you know what, brother, I'll go round and see...."

"Whom?" asked Vasya.

"The Artemyevs. I'll take them your good wishes for the New Year as well
as mine."

"My dear fellow! Well, I'll stay here; and I see it's a good idea of
yours; I shall be working here, I shan't waste my time. Wait one minute,
I'll write a note."

"Yes, do brother, do, there's plenty of time. I've still to wash and
shave and to brush my best coat. Well, Vasya, we are going to be
contented and happy. Embrace me, Vasya."

"Ah, if only we may, brother...."

"Does Mr. Shumkov live here?" they heard a child's voice on the stairs.

"Yes, my dear, yes," said Mavra, showing the visitor in.

"What's that? What is it?" cried Vasya, leaping up from the table and
rushing to the entry, "Petinka, you?"

"Good morning, I have the honour to wish you a happy New Year, Vassily
Petrovitch," said a pretty boy of ten years old with curly black hair.
"Sister sends you her love, and so does Mamma, and Sister told me to
give you a kiss for her."

Vasya caught the messenger up in the air and printed a long,
enthusiastic kiss on his lips, which were very much like Lizanka's.

"Kiss him, Arkady," he said handing Petya to him, and without touching
the ground the boy was transferred to Arkady Ivanovitch's powerful and
eager arms.

"Will you have some breakfast, dear?"

"Thank-you, very much. We have had it already, we got up early to-day,
the others have gone to church. Sister was two hours curling my hair,
and pomading it, washing me and mending my trousers, for I tore them
yesterday, playing with Sashka in the street, we were snowballing."

"Well, well, well!"

"So she dressed me up to come and see you, and then pomaded my head and
then gave me a regular kissing. She said: 'Go to Vasya, wish him a happy
New Year, and ask whether they are happy, whether they had a good night,
and ...' to ask something else,--oh yes! whether you had finished the
work you spoke of yesterday ... when you were there. Oh, I've got it all
written down," said the boy, reading from a slip of paper which he took
out of his pocket. "Yes, they were uneasy."

"It will be finished! It will be! Tell her that it will be. I shall
finish it, on my word of honour!"

"And something else.... Oh yes, I forgot. Sister sent a little note and
a present, and I was forgetting it!..."

"My goodness! Oh, you little darling! Where is it? where is it? That's
it, oh! Look, brother, see what she writes. The dar--ling, the precious!
You know I saw there yesterday a paper-case for me; it's not finished,
so she says, 'I am sending you a lock of my hair, and the other will
come later.' Look, brother, look!"

And overwhelmed with rapture he showed Arkady Ivanovitch a curl of
luxuriant, jet-black hair; then he kissed it fervently and put it in his
breast pocket, nearest his heart.

"Vasya, I shall get you a locket for that curl," Arkady Ivanovitch said
resolutely at last.

"And we are going to have hot veal, and to-morrow brains. Mamma wants to
make cakes ... but we are not going to have millet porridge," said the
boy, after a moment's thought, to wind up his budget of interesting
items.

"Oh! what a pretty boy," cried Arkady Ivanovitch. "Vasya, you are the
happiest of mortals."

The boy finished his tea, took from Vasya a note, a thousand kisses, and
went out happy and frolicsome as before.

"Well, brother," began Arkady Ivanovitch, highly delighted, "you see how
splendid it all is; you see. Everything is going well, don't be
downcast, don't be uneasy. Go ahead! Get it done, Vasya, get it done.
I'll be home at two o'clock. I'll go round to them, and then to Yulian
Mastakovitch."

"Well, good-bye, brother; good-bye.... Oh! if only.... Very good, you
go, very good," said Vasya, "then I really won't go to Yulian
Mastakovitch."

"Good-bye."

"Stay, brother, stay, tell them ... well, whatever you think fit. Kiss
her ... and give me a full account of everything afterwards."

"Come, come--of course, I know all about it. This happiness has upset
you. The suddenness of it all; you've not been yourself since yesterday.
You have not got over the excitement of yesterday. Well, it's settled.
Now try and get over it, Vasya. Good-bye, good-bye!"

At last the friends parted. All the morning Arkady Ivanovitch was
preoccupied, and could think of nothing but Vasya. He knew his weak,
highly nervous character. "Yes, this happiness has upset him, I was
right there," he said to himself. "Upon my word, he has made me quite
depressed, too, that man will make a tragedy of anything! What a
feverish creature! Oh, I must save him! I must save him!" said Arkady,
not noticing that he himself was exaggerating into something serious a
slight trouble, in reality quite trivial. Only at eleven o'clock he
reached the porter's lodge of Yulian Mastakovitch's house, to add his
modest name to the long list of illustrious persons who had written
their names on a sheet of blotted and scribbled paper in the porter's
lodge. What was his surprise when he saw just above his own the
signature of Vasya Shumkov! It amazed him. "What's the matter with him?"
he thought. Arkady Ivanovitch, who had just been so buoyant with hope,
came out feeling upset. There was certainly going to be trouble, but
how? And in what form?

He reached the Artemyevs with gloomy forebodings; he seemed
absent-minded from the first, and after talking a little with Lizanka
went away with tears in his eyes; he was really anxious about Vasya. He
went home running, and on the Neva came full tilt upon Vasya himself.
The latter, too, was uneasy.

"Where are you going?" cried Arkady Ivanovitch.

Vasya stopped as though he had been caught in a crime.

"Oh, it's nothing, brother, I wanted to go for a walk."

"You could not stand it, and have been to the Artemyevs? Oh, Vasya,
Vasya! Why did you go to Yulian Mastakovitch?"

Vasya did not answer, but then with a wave of his hand, he said:
"Arkady, I don't know what is the matter with me. I...."

"Come, come, Vasya. I know what it is. Calm yourself. You've been
excited, and overwrought ever since yesterday. Only think, it's not much
to bear. Everybody's fond of you, everybody's ready to do anything for
you; your work is getting on all right; you will get it done, you will
certainly get it done. I know that you have been imagining something,
you have had apprehensions about something...."

"No, it's all right, it's all right...."

"Do you remember, Vasya, do you remember it was the same with you once
before; do you remember, when you got your promotion, in your joy and
thankfulness you were so zealous that you spoilt all your work for a
week? It is just the same with you now."

"Yes, yes, Arkady; but now it is different, it is not that at all."

"How is it different? And very likely the work is not urgent at all,
while you are killing yourself...."

"It's nothing, it's nothing. I am all right, it's nothing. Well, come
along!"

"Why, are you going home, and not to them?"

"Yes, brother, how could I have the face to turn up there?... I have
changed my mind. It was only that I could not stay on alone without you;
now you are coming back with me I'll sit down to write again. Let us
go!"

They walked along and for some time were silent. Vasya was in haste.

"Why don't you ask me about them?" said Arkady Ivanovitch.

"Oh, yes! Well, Arkasha, what about them?"

"Vasya, you are not like yourself."

"Oh, I am all right, I am all right. Tell me everything, Arkasha," said
Vasya, in an imploring voice, as though to avoid further explanations.
Arkady Ivanovitch sighed. He felt utterly at a loss, looking at Vasya.

His account of their friends roused Vasya. He even grew talkative. They
had dinner together. Lizanka's mother had filled Arkady Ivanovitch's
pockets with little cakes, and eating them the friends grew more
cheerful. After dinner Vasya promised to take a nap, so as to sit up all
night. He did, in fact, lie down. In the morning, some one whom it was
impossible to refuse had invited Arkady Ivanovitch to tea. The friends
parted. Arkady promised to come back as soon as he could, by eight
o'clock if possible. The three hours of separation seemed to him like
three years. At last he got away and rushed back to Vasya. When he went
into the room, he found it in darkness. Vasya was not at home. He asked
Mavra. Mavra said that he had been writing all the time, and had not
slept at all, then he had paced up and down the room, and after that, an
hour before, he had run out, saying he would be back in half-an-hour;
"and when, says he, Arkady Ivanovitch comes in, tell him, old woman,
says he," Mavra told him in conclusion, "that I have gone out for a
walk," and he repeated the order three or four times.

"He is at the Artemyevs," thought Arkady Ivanovitch, and he shook his
head.

A minute later he jumped up with renewed hope.

"He has simply finished," he thought, "that's all it is; he couldn't
wait, but ran off there. But, no! he would have waited for me.... Let's
have a peep what he has there."

He lighted a candle, and ran to Vasya's writing-table: the work had made
progress and it looked as though there were not much left to do. Arkady
Ivanovitch was about to investigate further, when Vasya himself walked
in....

"Oh, you are here?" he cried, with a start of dismay.

Arkady Ivanovitch was silent. He was afraid to question Vasya. The
latter dropped his eyes and remained silent too, as he began sorting the
papers. At last their eyes met. The look in Vasya's was so beseeching,
imploring, and broken, that Arkady shuddered when he saw it. His heart
quivered and was full.

"Vasya, my dear boy, what is it? What's wrong?" he cried, rushing to him
and squeezing him in his arms. "Explain to me, I don't understand you,
and your depression. What is the matter with you, my poor, tormented
boy? What is it? Tell me all about it, without hiding anything. It can't
be only this----"

Vasya held him tight and could say nothing. He could scarcely breathe.

"Don't, Vasya, don't! Well, if you don't finish it, what then? I don't
understand you; tell me your trouble. You see it is for your sake I....
Oh dear! oh dear!" he said, walking up and down the room and clutching
at everything he came across, as though seeking at once some remedy for
Vasya. "I will go to Yulian Mastakovitch instead of you to-morrow. I
will ask him--entreat him--to let you have another day. I will explain
it all to him, anything, if it worries you so...."

"God forbid!" cried Vasya, and turned as white as the wall. He could
scarcely stand on his feet.

"Vasya! Vasya!"

Vasya pulled himself together. His lips were quivering; he tried to say
something, but could only convulsively squeeze Arkady's hand in silence.
His hand was cold. Arkady stood facing him, full of anxious and
miserable suspense. Vasya raised his eyes again.

"Vasya, God bless you, Vasya! You wring my heart, my dear boy, my
friend."

Tears gushed from Vasya's eyes; he flung himself on Arkady's bosom.

"I have deceived you, Arkady," he said. "I have deceived you. Forgive
me, forgive me! I have been faithless to your friendship...."

"What is it, Vasya? What is the matter?" asked Arkady, in real alarm.

"Look!"

And with a gesture of despair Vasya tossed out of the drawer on to the
table six thick manuscripts, similar to the one he had copied.

"What's this?"

"What I have to get through by the day after to-morrow. I haven't done a
quarter! Don't ask me, don't ask me how it has happened," Vasya went on,
speaking at once of what was distressing him so terribly. "Arkady, dear
friend, I don't know myself what came over me. I feel as though I were
coming out of a dream. I have wasted three weeks doing nothing. I kept
... I ... kept going to see her.... My heart was aching, I was tormented
by ... the uncertainty ... I could not write. I did not even think about
it. Only now, when happiness is at hand for me, I have come to my
senses."

"Vasya," began Arkady Ivanovitch resolutely, "Vasya, I will save you. I
understand it all. It's a serious matter; I will save you. Listen!
listen to me: I will go to Yulian Mastakovitch to-morrow.... Don't shake
your head; no, listen! I will tell him exactly how it has all been; let
me do that ... I will explain to him.... I will go into everything. I
will tell him how crushed you are, how you are worrying yourself."

"Do you know that you are killing me now?" Vasya brought out, turning
cold with horror.

Arkady Ivanovitch turned pale, but at once controlling himself, laughed.

"Is that all? Is that all?" he said. "Upon my word, Vasya, upon my word!
Aren't you ashamed? Come, listen! I see that I am grieving you. You see
I understand you; I know what is passing in your heart. Why, we have
been living together for five years, thank God! You are such a kind,
soft-hearted fellow, but weak, unpardonably weak. Why, even Lizaveta
Mikalovna has noticed it. And you are a dreamer, and that's a bad thing,
too; you may go from bad to worse, brother. I tell you, I know what you
want! You would like Yulian Mastakovitch, for instance, to be beside
himself and, maybe, to give a ball, too, from joy, because you are going
to get married.... Stop, stop! you are frowning. You see that at one
word from me you are offended on Yulian Mastakovitch's account. I'll let
him alone. You know I respect him just as much as you do. But argue as
you may, you can't prevent my thinking that you would like there to be
no one unhappy in the whole world when you are getting married.... Yes,
brother, you must admit that you would like me, for instance, your best
friend, to come in for a fortune of a hundred thousand all of a sudden,
you would like all the enemies in the world to be suddenly, for no rhyme
or reason, reconciled, so that in their joy they might all embrace one
another in the middle of the street, and then, perhaps, come here to
call on you. Vasya, my dear boy, I am not laughing; it is true; you've
said as much to me long ago, in different ways. Because you are happy,
you want every one, absolutely every one, to become happy at once. It
hurts you and troubles you to be happy alone. And so you want at once to
do your utmost to be worthy of that happiness, and maybe to do some
great deed to satisfy your conscience. Oh! I understand how ready you
are to distress yourself for having suddenly been remiss just where you
ought to have shown your zeal, your capacity ... well, maybe your
gratitude, as you say. It is very bitter for you to think that Yulian
Mastakovitch may frown and even be angry when he sees that you have not
justified the expectations he had of you. It hurts you to think that you
may hear reproaches from the man you look upon as your benefactor--and
at such a moment! when your heart is full of joy and you don't know on
whom to lavish your gratitude.... Isn't that true? It is, isn't it?"

Arkady Ivanovitch, whose voice was trembling, paused, and drew a deep
breath.

Vasya looked affectionately at his friend. A smile passed over his lips.
His face even lighted up, as though with a gleam of hope.

"Well, listen, then," Arkady Ivanovitch began again, growing more
hopeful, "there's no necessity that you should forfeit Yulian
Mastakovitch's favour.... Is there, dear boy? Is there any question of
it? And since it is so," said Arkady, jumping up, "I shall sacrifice
myself for you. I am going to-morrow to Yulian Mastakovitch, and don't
oppose me. You magnify your failure to a crime, Vasya. Yulian
Mastakovitch is magnanimous and merciful, and, what is more, he is not
like you. He will listen to you and me, and get us out of our trouble,
brother Vasya. Well, are you calmer?"

Vasya pressed his friend's hands with tears in his eyes.

"Hush, hush, Arkady," he said, "the thing is settled. I haven't
finished, so very well; if I haven't finished, I haven't finished, and
there's no need for you to go. I will tell him all about it, I will go
myself. I am calmer now, I am perfectly calm; only you mustn't go....
But listen...."

"Vasya, my dear boy," Arkady Ivanovitch cried joyfully, "I judged from
what you said. I am glad that you have thought better of things and have
recovered yourself. But whatever may befall you, whatever happens, I am
with you, remember that. I see that it worries you to think of my
speaking to Yulian Mastakovitch--and I won't say a word, not a word, you
shall tell him yourself. You see, you shall go to-morrow.... Oh no, you
had better not go, you'll go on writing here, you see, and I'll find out
about this work, whether it is very urgent or not, whether it must be
done by the time or not, and if you don't finish it in time what will
come of it. Then I will run back to you. Do you see, do you see! There
is still hope; suppose the work is not urgent--it may be all right.
Yulian Mastakovitch may not remember, then all is saved."

Vasya shook his head doubtfully. But his grateful eyes never left his
friend's face.

"Come, that's enough, I am so weak, so tired," he said, sighing. "I
don't want to think about it. Let us talk of something else. I won't
write either now; do you know I'll only finish two short pages just to
get to the end of a passage. Listen ... I have long wanted to ask you,
how is it you know me so well?"

Tears dropped from Vasya's eyes on Arkady's hand.

"If you knew, Vasya, how fond I am of you, you would not ask that--yes!"

"Yes, yes, Arkady, I don't know that, because I don't know why you are
so fond of me. Yes, Arkady, do you know, even your love has been killing
me? Do you know, ever so many times, particularly when I am thinking of
you in bed (for I always think of you when I am falling asleep), I shed
tears, and my heart throbs at the thought ... at the thought.... Well,
at the thought that you are so fond of me, while I can do nothing to
relieve my heart, can do nothing to repay you."

"You see, Vasya, you see what a fellow you are! Why, how upset you are
now," said Arkady, whose heart ached at that moment and who remembered
the scene in the street the day before.

"Nonsense, you want me to be calm, but I never have been so calm and
happy! Do you know.... Listen, I want to tell you all about it, but I am
afraid of wounding you.... You keep scolding me and being vexed; and I
am afraid.... See how I am trembling now, I don't know why. You see,
this is what I want to say. I feel as though I had never known myself
before--yes! Yes, I only began to understand other people too,
yesterday. I did not feel or appreciate things fully, brother. My heart
... was hard.... Listen how has it happened, that I have never done good
to any one, any one in the world, because I couldn't--I am not even
pleasant to look at.... But everybody does me good! You, to begin with:
do you suppose I don't see that? Only I said nothing; only I said
nothing."

"Hush, Vasya!"

"Oh, Arkasha! ... it's all right," Vasya interrupted, hardly able to
articulate for tears. "I talked to you yesterday about Yulian
Mastakovitch. And you know yourself how stern and severe he is, even you
have come in for a reprimand from him; yet he deigned to jest with me
yesterday, to show his affection, and kind-heartedness, which he
prudently conceals from every one...."

"Come, Vasya, that only shows you deserve your good fortune."

"Oh, Arkasha! How I longed to finish all this.... No, I shall ruin my
good luck! I feel that! Oh no, not through that," Vasya added, seeing
that Arkady glanced at the heap of urgent work lying on the table,
"that's nothing, that's only paper covered with writing ... it's
nonsense! That matter's settled.... I went to see them to-day, Arkasha;
I did not go in. I felt depressed and sad. I simply stood at the door.
She was playing the piano, I listened. You see, Arkady," he went on,
dropping his voice, "I did not dare to go in."

"I say, Vasya--what is the matter with you? You look at one so
strangely."

"Oh, it's nothing, I feel a little sick; my legs are trembling; it's
because I sat up last night. Yes! Everything looks green before my eyes.
It's here, here----"

He pointed to his heart. He fainted. When he came to himself Arkady
tried to take forcible measures. He tried to compel him to go to bed.
Nothing would induce Vasya to consent. He shed tears, wrung his hands,
wanted to write, was absolutely set on finishing his two pages. To avoid
exciting him Arkady let him sit down to the work.

"Do you know," said Vasya, as he settled himself in his place, "an idea
has occurred to me? There is hope."

He smiled to Arkady, and his pale face lighted up with a gleam of hope.

"I will take him what is done the day after to-morrow. About the rest I
will tell a lie. I will say it has been burnt, that it has been sopped
in water, that I have lost it.... That, in fact, I have not finished it;
I cannot lie. I will explain, do you know, what? I'll explain to him all
about it. I will tell him how it was that I could not. I'll tell him
about my love; he has got married himself just lately, he'll understand
me. I will do it all, of course, respectfully, quietly; he will see my
tears and be touched by them...."

"Yes, of course, you must go, you must go and explain to him.... But
there's no need of tears! Tears for what? Really, Vasya, you quite scare
me."

"Yes, I'll go, I'll go. But now let me write, let me write, Arkasha. I
am not interfering with any one, let me write!"

Arkady flung himself on the bed. He had no confidence in Vasya, no
confidence at all. "Vasya was capable of anything, but to ask
forgiveness for what? how? That was not the point. The point was, that
Vasya had not carried out his obligations, that Vasya felt guilty _in
his own eyes_, felt that he was ungrateful to destiny, that Vasya was
crushed, overwhelmed by happiness and thought himself unworthy of it;
that, in fact, he was simply trying to find an excuse to go off his head
on that point, and that he had not recovered from the unexpectedness of
what had happened the day before; that's what it is," thought Arkady
Ivanovitch. "I must save him. I must reconcile him to himself. He will
be his own ruin." He thought and thought, and resolved to go at once
next day to Yulian Mastakovitch, and to tell him all about it.

Vasya was sitting writing. Arkady Ivanovitch, worn out, lay down to
think things over again, and only woke at daybreak.

"Damnation! Again!" he cried, looking at Vasya; the latter was still
sitting writing.

Arkady rushed up to him, seized him and forcibly put him to bed. Vasya
was smiling: his eyes were closing with sleep. He could hardly speak.

"I wanted to go to bed," he said. "Do you know, Arkady, I have an idea;
I shall finish. I made my pen go faster! I could not have sat at it any
longer; wake me at eight o'clock."

Without finishing his sentence, he dropped asleep and slept like the
dead.

"Mavra," said Arkady Ivanovitch to Mavra, who came in with the tea, "he
asked to be waked in an hour. Don't wake him on any account! Let him
sleep ten hours, if he can. Do you understand?"

"I understand, sir."

"Don't get the dinner, don't bring in the wood, don't make a noise or it
will be the worse for you. If he asks for me, tell him I have gone to
the office--do you understand?"

"I understand, bless you, sir; let him sleep and welcome! I am glad my
gentlemen should sleep well, and I take good care of their things. And
about that cup that was broken, and you blamed me, your honour, it
wasn't me, it was poor pussy broke it, I ought to have kept an eye on
her. 'S-sh, you confounded thing,' I said."

"Hush, be quiet, be quiet!"

Arkady Ivanovitch followed Mavra out into the kitchen, asked for the key
and locked her up there. Then he went to the office. On the way he
considered how he could present himself before Yulian Mastakovitch, and
whether it would be appropriate and not impertinent. He went into the
office timidly, and timidly inquired whether His Excellency were there;
receiving the answer that he was not and would not be, Arkady Ivanovitch
instantly thought of going to his flat, but reflected very prudently
that if Yulian Mastakovitch had not come to the office he would
certainly be busy at home. He remained. The hours seemed to him endless.
Indirectly he inquired about the work entrusted to Shumkov, but no one
knew anything about this. All that was known was that Yulian
Mastakovitch did employ him on special jobs, but what they were--no one
could say. At last it struck three o'clock, and Arkady Ivanovitch rushed
out, eager to get home. In the vestibule he was met by a clerk, who told
him that Vassily Petrovitch Shumkov had come about one o'clock and
asked, the clerk added, "whether you were here, and whether Yulian
Mastakovitch had been here." Hearing this Arkady Ivanovitch took a
sledge and hastened home beside himself with alarm.

Shumkov was at home. He was walking about the room in violent
excitement. Glancing at Arkady Ivanovitch, he immediately controlled
himself, reflected, and hastened to conceal his emotion. He sat down to
his papers without a word. He seemed to avoid his friend's questions,
seemed to be bothered by them, to be pondering to himself on some plan,
and deciding to conceal his decision, because he could not reckon
further on his friend's affection. This struck Arkady, and his heart
ached with a poignant and oppressive pain. He sat on the bed and began
turning over the leaves of some book, the only one he had in his
possession, keeping his eye on poor Vasya. But Vasya remained
obstinately silent, writing, and not raising his head. So passed several
hours, and Arkady's misery reached an extreme point. At last, at eleven
o'clock, Vasya lifted his head and looked with a fixed, vacant stare at
Arkady. Arkady waited. Two or three minutes passed; Vasya did not speak.

"Vasya!" cried Arkady.

Vasya made no answer.

"Vasya!" he repeated, jumping up from the bed, "Vasya, what is the
matter with you? What is it?" he cried, running up to him.

Vasya raised his eyes and again looked at him with the same vacant,
fixed stare.

"He's in a trance!" thought Arkady, trembling all over with fear. He
seized a bottle of water, raised Vasya, poured some water on his head,
moistened his temples, rubbed his hands in his own--and Vasya came to
himself. "Vasya, Vasya!" cried Arkady, unable to restrain his tears.
"Vasya, save yourself, rouse yourself, rouse yourself!..." He could say
no more, but held him tight in his arms. A look as of some oppressive
sensation passed over Vasya's face; he rubbed his forehead and clutched
at his head, as though he were afraid it would burst.

"I don't know what is the matter with me," he added, at last. "I feel
torn to pieces. Come, it's all right, it's all right! Give over, Arkady;
don't grieve," he repeated, looking at him with sad, exhausted eyes.
"Why be so anxious? Come!"

"You, you comforting me!" cried Arkady, whose heart was torn. "Vasya,"
he said at last, "lie down and have a little nap, won't you? Don't wear
yourself out for nothing! You'll set to work better afterwards."

"Yes, yes," said Vasya, "by all means, I'll lie down, very good. Yes!
you see I meant to finish, but now I've changed my mind, yes...."

And Arkady led him to the bed.

"Listen, Vasya," he said firmly, "we must settle this matter finally.
Tell me what were you thinking about?"

"Oh!" said Vasya, with a flourish of his weak hand turning over on the
other side.

"Come, Vasya, come, make up your mind. I don't want to hurt you. I can't
be silent any longer. You won't sleep till you've made up your mind, I
know."

"As you like, as you like," Vasya repeated enigmatically.

"He will give in," thought Arkady Ivanovitch.

"Attend to me, Vasya," he said, "remember what I say, and I will save
you to-morrow; to-morrow I will decide your fate! What am I saying, your
fate? You have so frightened me, Vasya, that I am using your own words.
Fate, indeed! It's simply nonsense, rubbish! You don't want to lose
Yulian Mastakovitch's favour--affection, if you like. No! And you won't
lose it, you will see. I----"

Arkady Ivanovitch would have said more, but Vasya interrupted him. He
sat up in bed, put both arms round Arkady Ivanovitch's neck and kissed
him.

"Enough," he said in a weak voice, "enough! Say no more about that!"

And again he turned his face to the wall.

"My goodness!" thought Arkady, "my goodness! What is the matter with
him? He is utterly lost. What has he in his mind! He will be his own
undoing."

Arkady looked at him in despair.

"If he were to fall ill," thought Arkady, "perhaps it would be better.
His trouble would pass off with illness, and that might be the best way
of settling the whole business. But what nonsense I am talking. Oh, my
God!"

Meanwhile Vasya seemed to be asleep. Arkady Ivanovitch was relieved. "A
good sign," he thought. He made up his mind to sit beside him all night.
But Vasya was restless; he kept twitching and tossing about on the bed,
and opening his eyes for an instant. At last exhaustion got the upper
hand, he slept like the dead. It was about two o'clock in the morning,
Arkady Ivanovitch began to doze in the chair with his elbow on the
table!

He had a strange and agitated dream. He kept fancying that he was not
asleep, and that Vasya was still lying on the bed. But strange to say,
he fancied that Vasya was pretending, that he was deceiving him, that he
was getting up, stealthily watching him out of the corner of his eye,
and was stealing up to the writing table. Arkady felt a scalding pain at
his heart; he felt vexed and sad and oppressed to see Vasya not trusting
him, hiding and concealing himself from him. He tried to catch hold of
him, to call out, to carry him to the bed. Then Vasya kept shrieking in
his arms, and he laid on the bed a lifeless corpse. He opened his eyes
and woke up; Vasya was sitting before him at the table, writing.

Hardly able to believe his senses, Arkady glanced at the bed; Vasya was
not there. Arkady jumped up in a panic, still under the influence of his
dream. Vasya did not stir; he went on writing. All at once Arkady
noticed with horror that Vasya was moving a dry pen over the paper, was
turning over perfectly blank pages, and hurrying, hurrying to fill up
the paper as though he were doing his work in a most thorough and
efficient way. "No, this is not a trance," thought Arkady Ivanovitch,
and he trembled all over.

"Vasya, Vasya, speak to me," he cried, clutching him by the shoulder.
But Vasya did not speak; he went on as before, scribbling with a dry pen
over the paper.

"At last I have made the pen go faster," he said, without looking up at
Arkady.

Arkady seized his hand and snatched away the pen.

A moan broke from Vasya. He dropped his hand and raised his eyes to
Arkady; then with an air of misery and exhaustion he passed his hand
over his forehead as though he wanted to shake off some leaden weight
that was pressing upon his whole being, and slowly, as though lost in
thought, he let his head sink on his breast.

"Vasya, Vasya!" cried Arkady in despair. "Vasya!"

A minute later Vasya looked at him, tears stood in his large blue eyes,
and his pale, mild face wore a look of infinite suffering. He whispered
something.

"What, what is it?" cried Arkady, bending down to him.

"What for, why are they doing it to me?" whispered Vasya. "What for?
What have I done?"

"Vasya, what is it? What are you afraid of? What is it?" cried Arkady,
wringing his hands in despair.

"Why are they sending me for a soldier?" said Vasya, looking his friend
straight in the face. "Why is it? What have I done?"

Arkady's hair stood on end with horror; he refused to believe his ears.
He stood over him, half dead.

A minute later he pulled himself together. "It's nothing, it's only for
the minute," he said to himself, with pale face and blue, quivering
lips, and he hastened to put on his outdoor things. He meant to run
straight for a doctor. All at once Vasya called to him. Arkady rushed to
him and clasped him in his arms like a mother whose child is being torn
from her.

"Arkady, Arkady, don't tell any one! Don't tell any one, do you hear? It
is my trouble, I must bear it alone."

"What is it--what is it? Rouse yourself, Vasya, rouse yourself!"

Vasya sighed, and slow tears trickled down his cheeks.

"Why kill her? How is she to blame?" he muttered in an agonized,
heartrending voice. "The sin is mine, the sin is mine!"

He was silent for a moment.

"Farewell, my love! Farewell, my love!" he whispered, shaking his
luckless head. Arkady started, pulled himself together and would have
rushed for the doctor. "Let us go, it is time," cried Vasya, carried
away by Arkady's last movement. "Let us go, brother, let us go; I am
ready. You lead the way." He paused and looked at Arkady with a downcast
and mistrustful face.

"Vasya, for goodness' sake, don't follow me! Wait for me here. I will
come back to you directly, directly," said Arkady Ivanovitch, losing his
head and snatching up his cap to run for a doctor. Vasya sat down at
once, he was quiet and docile; but there was a gleam of some desperate
resolution in his eye. Arkady turned back, snatched up from the table an
open penknife, looked at the poor fellow for the last time, and ran out
of the flat.

It was eight o'clock. It had been broad daylight for some time in the
room.

He found no one. He was running about for a full hour. All the doctors
whose addresses he had got from the house porter when he inquired of the
latter whether there were no doctor living in the building, had gone
out, either to their work or on their private affairs. There was one who
saw patients. This one questioned at length and in detail the servant
who announced that Nefedevitch had called, asking him who it was, from
whom he came, what was the matter, and concluded by saying that he could
not go, that he had a great deal to do, and that patients of that kind
ought to be taken to a hospital.

Then Arkady, exhausted, agitated, and utterly taken aback by this turn
of affairs, cursed all the doctors on earth, and rushed home in the
utmost alarm about Vasya. He ran into the flat. Mavra, as though there
were nothing the matter, went on scrubbing the floor, breaking up wood
and preparing to light the stove. He went into the room; there was no
trace of Vasya, he had gone out.

"Which way? Where? Where will the poor fellow be off to?" thought
Arkady, frozen with terror. He began questioning Mavra. She knew
nothing, had neither seen nor heard him go out, God bless him!
Nefedevitch rushed off to the Artemyevs'.

It occurred to him for some reason that he must be there.

It was ten o'clock by the time he arrived. They did not expect him, knew
nothing and had heard nothing. He stood before them frightened,
distressed, and asked where was Vasya? The mother's legs gave way under
her; she sank back on the sofa. Lizanka, trembling with alarm, began
asking what had happened. What could he say? Arkady Ivanovitch got out
of it as best he could, invented some tale which of course was not
believed, and fled, leaving them distressed and anxious. He flew to his
department that he might not be too late there, and he let them know
that steps might be taken at once. On the way it occurred to him that
Vasya would be at Yulian Mastakovitch's. That was more likely than
anything: Arkady had thought of that first of all, even before the
Artemyevs'. As he drove by His Excellency's door, he thought of
stopping, but at once told the driver to go straight on. He made up his
mind to try and find out whether anything had happened at the office,
and if he were not there to go to His Excellency, ostensibly to report
on Vasya. Some one must be informed of it.

As soon as he got into the waiting-room he was surrounded by
fellow-clerks, for the most part young men of his own standing in the
service. With one voice they began asking him what had happened to
Vasya? At the same time they all told him that Vasya had gone out of his
mind, and thought that he was to be sent for a soldier as a punishment
for having neglected his work. Arkady Ivanovitch, answering them in all
directions, or rather avoiding giving a direct answer to any one, rushed
into the inner room. On the way he learned that Vasya was in Yulian
Mastakovitch's private room, that every one had been there and that
Esper Ivanovitch had gone in there too. He was stopped on the way. One
of the senior clerks asked him who he was and what he wanted? Without
distinguishing the person he said something about Vasya and went
straight into the room. He heard Yulian Mastakovitch's voice from
within. "Where are you going?" some one asked him at the very door.
Arkady Ivanovitch was almost in despair; he was on the point of turning
back, but through the open door he saw his poor Vasya. He pushed the
door and squeezed his way into the room. Every one seemed to be in
confusion and perplexity, because Yulian Mastakovitch was apparently
much chagrined. All the more important personages were standing about
him talking, and coming to no decision. At a little distance stood
Vasya. Arkady's heart sank when he looked at him. Vasya was standing,
pale, with his head up, stiffly erect, like a recruit before a new
officer, with his feet together and his hands held rigidly at his sides.
He was looking Yulian Mastakovitch straight in the face. Arkady was
noticed at once, and some one who knew that they lodged together
mentioned the fact to His Excellency. Arkady was led up to him. He tried
to make some answer to the questions put to him, glanced at Yulian
Mastakovitch and seeing on his face a look of genuine compassion, began
trembling and sobbing like a child. He even did more, he snatched His
Excellency's hand and held it to his eyes, wetting it with his tears, so
that Yulian Mastakovitch was obliged to draw it hastily away, and waving
it in the air, said, "Come, my dear fellow, come! I see you have a good
heart." Arkady sobbed and turned an imploring look on every one. It
seemed to him that they were all brothers of his dear Vasya, that they
were all worried and weeping about him. "How, how has it happened? how
has it happened?" asked Yulian Mastakovitch. "What has sent him out of
his mind?"

"Gra--gra--gratitude!" was all Arkady Ivanovitch could articulate.

Every one heard his answer with amazement, and it seemed strange and
incredible to every one that a man could go out of his mind from
gratitude. Arkady explained as best he could.

"Good Heavens! what a pity!" said Yulian Mastakovitch at last. "And the
work entrusted to him was not important, and not urgent in the least. It
was not worth while for a man to kill himself over it! Well, take him
away!"... At this point Yulian Mastakovitch turned to Arkady Ivanovitch
again, and began questioning him once more. "He begs," he said, pointing
to Vasya, "that some girl should not be told of this. Who is she--his
betrothed, I suppose?"

Arkady began to explain. Meanwhile Vasya seemed to be thinking of
something, as though he were straining his memory to the utmost to
recall some important, necessary matter, which was particularly wanted
at this moment. From time to time he looked round with a distressed
face, as though hoping some one would remind him of what he had
forgotten. He fastened his eyes on Arkady. All of a sudden there was a
gleam of hope in his eyes; he moved with the left leg forward, took
three steps as smartly as he could, clicking with his right boot as
soldiers do when they move forward at the call from their officer. Every
one was waiting to see what would happen.

"I have a physical defect and am small and weak, and I am not fit for
military service, Your Excellency," he said abruptly.

At that every one in the room felt a pang at his heart, and firm as was
Yulian Mastakovitch's character, tears trickled from his eyes.

"Take him away," he said, with a wave of his hands.

"Present!" said Vasya in an undertone; he wheeled round to the left and
marched out of the room. All who were interested in his fate followed
him out. Arkady pushed his way out behind the others. They made Vasya
sit down in the waiting-room till the carriage came which had been
ordered to take him to the hospital. He sat down in silence and seemed
in great anxiety. He nodded to any one he recognized as though saying
good-bye. He looked round towards the door every minute, and prepared
himself to set off when he should be told it was time. People crowded in
a close circle round him; they were all shaking their heads and
lamenting. Many of them were much impressed by his story, which had
suddenly become known. Some discussed his illness, while others
expressed their pity and high opinion of Vasya, saying that he was such
a quiet, modest young man, that he had been so promising; people
described what efforts he had made to learn, how eager he was for
knowledge, how he had worked to educate himself. "He had risen by his
own efforts from a humble position," some one observed. They spoke with
emotion of His Excellency's affection for him. Some of them fell to
explaining why Vasya was possessed by the idea that he was being sent
for a soldier, because he had not finished his work. They said that the
poor fellow had so lately belonged to the class liable for military
service and had only received his first grade through the good offices
of Yulian Mastakovitch, who had had the cleverness to discover his
talent, his docility, and the rare mildness of his disposition. In fact,
there was a great number of views and theories.

A very short fellow-clerk of Vasya's was conspicuous as being
particularly distressed. He was not very young, probably about thirty.
He was pale as a sheet, trembling all over and smiling queerly, perhaps
because any scandalous affair or terrible scene both frightens, and at
the same time somewhat rejoices the outside spectator. He kept running
round the circle that surrounded Vasya, and as he was so short, stood on
tiptoe and caught at the button of every one--that is, of those with
whom he felt entitled to take such a liberty--and kept saying that he
knew how it had all happened, that it was not so simple, but a very
important matter, that it couldn't be left without further inquiry; then
stood on tiptoe again, whispered in some one's ear, nodded his head
again two or three times, and ran round again. At last everything was
over. The porter made his appearance, and an attendant from the hospital
went up to Vasya and told him it was time to start. Vasya jumped up in a
flutter and went with them, looking about him. He was looking about for
some one.

"Vasya, Vasya!" cried Arkady Ivanovitch, sobbing. Vasya stopped, and
Arkady squeezed his way up to him. They flung themselves into each
other's arms in a last bitter embrace. It was sad to see them. What
monstrous calamity was wringing the tears from their eyes! What were
they weeping for? What was their trouble? Why did they not understand
one another?

"Here, here, take it! Take care of it," said Shumkov, thrusting a paper
of some kind into Arkady's hand. "They will take it away from me. Bring
it me later on; bring it ... take care of it...." Vasya could not
finish, they called to him. He ran hurriedly downstairs, nodding to
every one, saying good-bye to every one. There was despair in his face.
At last he was put in the carriage and taken away. Arkady made haste to
open the paper: it was Liza's curl of black hair, from which Vasya had
never parted. Hot tears gushed from Arkady's eyes: oh, poor Liza!

When office hours were over, he went to the Artemyevs'. There is no need
to describe what happened there! Even Petya, little Petya, though he
could not quite understand what had happened to dear Vasya, went into a
corner, hid his face in his little hands, and sobbed in the fullness of
his childish heart. It was quite dusk when Arkady returned home. When he
reached the Neva he stood still for a minute and turned a keen glance up
the river into the smoky frozen thickness of the distance, which was
suddenly flushed crimson with the last purple and blood-red glow of
sunset, still smouldering on the misty horizon.... Night lay over the
city, and the wide plain of the Neva, swollen with frozen snow, was
shining in the last gleams of the sun with myriads of sparks of gleaming
hoar frost. There was a frost of twenty degrees. A cloud of frozen steam
hung about the overdriven horses and the hurrying people. The condensed
atmosphere quivered at the slightest sound, and from all the roofs on
both sides of the river, columns of smoke rose up like giants and
floated across the cold sky, intertwining and untwining as they went, so
that it seemed new buildings were rising up above the old, a new town
was taking shape in the air.... It seemed as if all that world, with all
its inhabitants, strong and weak, with all their habitations, the
refuges of the poor, or the gilded palaces for the comfort of the
powerful of this world was at that twilight hour like a fantastic vision
of fairy-land, like a dream which in its turn would vanish and pass away
like vapour into the dark blue sky. A strange thought came to poor
Vasya's forlorn friend. He started, and his heart seemed at that instant
flooded with a hot rush of blood kindled by a powerful, overwhelming
sensation he had never known before. He seemed only now to understand
all the trouble, and to know why his poor Vasya had gone out of his
mind, unable to bear his happiness. His lips twitched, his eyes lighted
up, he turned pale, and as it were had a clear vision into something
new.

He became gloomy and depressed, and lost all his gaiety. His old lodging
grew hateful to him--he took a new room. He did not care to visit the
Artemyevs, and indeed he could not. Two years later he met Lizanka in
church. She was by then married; beside her walked a wet nurse with a
tiny baby. They greeted each other, and for a long time avoided all
mention of the past. Liza said that, thank God, she was happy, that she
was not badly off, that her husband was a kind man and that she was fond
of him.... But suddenly in the middle of a sentence her eyes filled with
tears, her voice failed, she turned away, and bowed down to the church
pavement to hide her grief.

A CHRISTMAS TREE AND A WEDDING

A STORY

The other day I saw a wedding ... but no, I had better tell you about
the Christmas tree. The wedding was nice, I liked it very much; but the
other incident was better. I don't know how it was that, looking at that
wedding, I thought of that Christmas tree. This was what happened. Just
five years ago, on New Year's Eve, I was invited to a children's party.
The giver of the party was a well-known and business-like personage,
with connections, with a large circle of acquaintances, and a good many
schemes on hand, so that it may be supposed that this party was an
excuse for getting the parents together and discussing various
interesting matters in an innocent, casual way. I was an outsider; I had
no interesting matter to contribute, and so I spent the evening rather
independently. There was another gentleman present who was, I fancied,
of no special rank or family, and who, like me, had simply turned up at
this family festivity. He was the first to catch my eye. He was a tall,
lanky man, very grave and very correctly dressed. But one could see that
he was in no mood for merrymaking and family festivity; whenever he
withdrew into a corner he left off smiling and knitted his bushy black
brows. He had not a single acquaintance in the party except his host.
One could see that he was fearfully bored, but that he was valiantly
keeping up the part of a man perfectly happy and enjoying himself. I
learned afterwards that this was a gentleman from the provinces, who had
a critical and perplexing piece of business in Petersburg, who had
brought a letter of introduction to our host, for whom our host was, by
no means _con amore_, using his interest, and whom he had invited, out
of civility, to his children's party. He did not play cards, cigars were
not offered him, every one avoided entering into conversation with him,
most likely recognizing the bird from its feathers; and so my gentleman
was forced to sit the whole evening stroking his whiskers simply to have
something to do with his hands. His whiskers were certainly very fine.
But he stroked them so zealously that, looking at him, one might have
supposed that the whiskers were created first and the gentleman only
attached to them in order to stroke them.

In addition to this individual who assisted in this way at our host's
family festivity (he had five fat, well-fed boys), I was attracted, too,
by another gentleman. But he was quite of a different sort. He was a
personage. He was called Yulian Mastakovitch. From the first glance one
could see that he was an honoured guest, and stood in the same relation
to our host as our host stood in relation to the gentleman who was
stroking his whiskers. Our host and hostess said no end of polite things
to him, waited on him hand and foot, pressed him to drink, flattered
him, brought their visitors up to be introduced to him, but did not take
him to be introduced to any one else. I noticed that tears glistened in
our host's eyes when he remarked about the party that he had rarely
spent an evening so agreeably. I felt as it were frightened in the
presence of such a personage, and so, after admiring the children, I
went away into a little parlour, which was quite empty, and sat down in
an arbour of flowers which filled up almost half the room.

The children were all incredibly sweet, and resolutely refused to model
themselves on the "grown-ups," regardless of all the admonitions of
their governesses and mammas. They stripped the Christmas tree to the
last sweetmeat in the twinkling of an eye, and had succeeded in breaking
half the playthings before they knew what was destined for which.
Particularly charming was a black-eyed, curly-headed boy, who kept
trying to shoot me with his wooden gun. But my attention was still more
attracted by his sister, a girl of eleven, quiet, dreamy, pale, with
big, prominent, dreamy eyes, exquisite as a little Cupid. The children
hurt her feelings in some way, and so she came away from them to the
same empty parlour in which I was sitting, and played with her doll in
the corner. The visitors respectfully pointed out her father, a wealthy
contractor, and some one whispered that three hundred thousand roubles
were already set aside for her dowry. I turned round to glance at the
group who were interested in such a circumstance, and my eye fell on
Yulian Mastakovitch, who, with his hands behind his back and his head on
one side, was listening with the greatest attention to these gentlemen's
idle gossip. Afterwards I could not help admiring the discrimination of
the host and hostess in the distribution of the children's presents. The
little girl, who had already a portion of three hundred thousand
roubles, received the costliest doll. Then followed presents diminishing
in value in accordance with the rank of the parents of these happy
children; finally, the child of lowest degree, a thin, freckled,
red-haired little boy of ten, got nothing but a book of stories about
the marvels of nature and tears of devotion, etc., without pictures or
even woodcuts. He was the son of a poor widow, the governess of the
children of the house, an oppressed and scared little boy. He was
dressed in a short jacket of inferior nankin. After receiving his book
he walked round the other toys for a long time; he longed to play with
the other children, but did not dare; it was evident that he already
felt and understood his position. I love watching children. Their first
independent approaches to life are extremely interesting. I noticed that
the red-haired boy was so fascinated by the costly toys of the other
children, especially by a theatre in which he certainly longed to take
some part, that he made up his mind to sacrifice his dignity. He smiled
and began playing with the other children, he gave away his apple to a
fat-faced little boy who had a mass of goodies tied up in a
pocket-handkerchief already, and even brought himself to carry another
boy on his back, simply not to be turned away from the theatre, but an
insolent youth gave him a heavy thump a minute later. The child did not
dare to cry. Then the governess, his mother, made her appearance, and
told him not to interfere with the other children's playing. The boy
went away to the same room in which was the little girl. She let him
join her, and the two set to work very eagerly dressing the expensive
doll.

I had been sitting more than half an hour in the ivy arbour, listening
to the little prattle of the red-haired boy and the beauty with the
dowry of three hundred thousand, who was nursing her doll, when Yulian
Mastakovitch suddenly walked into the room. He had taken advantage of
the general commotion following a quarrel among the children to step out
of the drawing-room. I had noticed him a moment before talking very
cordially to the future heiress's papa, whose acquaintance he had just
made, of the superiority of one branch of the service over another. Now
he stood in hesitation and seemed to be reckoning something on his
fingers.

"Three hundred ... three hundred," he was whispering. "Eleven ... twelve
... thirteen," and so on. "Sixteen--five years! Supposing it is at four
per cent.--five times twelve is sixty; yes, to that sixty ... well, in
five years we may assume it will be four hundred. Yes!... But he won't
stick to four per cent., the rascal. He can get eight or ten. Well, five
hundred, let us say, five hundred at least ... that's certain; well, say
a little more for frills. H'm!..."

His hesitation was at an end, he blew his nose and was on the point of
going out of the room when he suddenly glanced at the little girl and
stopped short. He did not see me behind the pots of greenery. It seemed
to me that he was greatly excited. Either his calculations had affected
his imagination or something else, for he rubbed his hands and could
hardly stand still. This excitement reached its utmost limit when he
stopped and bent another resolute glance at the future heiress. He was
about to move forward, but first looked round, then moving on tiptoe, as
though he felt guilty, he advanced towards the children. He approached
with a little smile, bent down and kissed her on the head. The child,
not expecting this attack, uttered a cry of alarm.

"What are you doing here, sweet child?" he asked in a whisper, looking
round and patting the girl's cheek.

"We are playing."

"Ah! With him?" Yulian Mastakovitch looked askance at the boy. "You had
better go into the drawing-room, my dear," he said to him.

The boy looked at him open-eyed and did not utter a word. Yulian
Mastakovitch looked round him again, and again bent down to the little
girl.

"And what is this you've got--a dolly, dear child?" he asked.

"Yes, a dolly," answered the child, frowning, and a little shy.

"A dolly ... and do you know, dear child, what your dolly is made of?"

"I don't know ..." the child answered in a whisper, hanging her head.

"It's made of rags, darling. You had better go into the drawing-room to
your playmates, boy," said Yulian Mastakovitch, looking sternly at the
boy. The boy and girl frowned and clutched at each other. They did not
want to be separated.

"And do you know why they gave you that doll?" asked Yulian
Mastakovitch, dropping his voice to a softer and softer tone.

"I don't know."

"Because you have been a sweet and well-behaved child all the week."

At this point Yulian Mastakovitch, more excited than ever, speaking in
most dulcet tones, asked at last, in a hardly audible voice choked with
emotion and impatience--

"And will you love me, dear little girl, when I come and see your papa
and mamma?"

Saying this, Yulian Mastakovitch tried once more to kiss "the dear
little girl," but the red-haired boy, seeing that the little girl was on
the point of tears, clutched her hand and began whimpering from sympathy
for her. Yulian Mastakovitch was angry in earnest.

"Go away, go away from here, go away!" he said to the boy. "Go into the
drawing-room! Go in there to your playmates!"

"No, he needn't, he needn't! You go away," said the little girl. "Leave
him alone, leave him alone," she said, almost crying.

Some one made a sound at the door. Yulian Mastakovitch instantly raised
his majestic person and took alarm. But the red-haired boy was even more
alarmed than Yulian Mastakovitch; he abandoned the little girl and,
slinking along by the wall, stole out of the parlour into the
dining-room. To avoid arousing suspicion, Yulian Mastakovitch, too, went
into the dining-room. He was as red as a lobster, and, glancing into the
looking-glass, seemed to be ashamed at himself. He was perhaps vexed
with himself for his impetuosity and hastiness. Possibly, he was at
first so much impressed by his calculations, so inspired and fascinated
by them, that in spite of his seriousness and dignity he made up his
mind to behave like a boy, and directly approach the object of his
attentions, even though she could not be really the object of his
attentions for another five years at least. I followed the estimable
gentleman into the dining-room and there beheld a strange spectacle.
Yulian Mastakovitch, flushed with vexation and anger, was frightening
the red-haired boy, who, retreating from him, did not know where to run
in his terror.

"Go away; what are you doing here? Go away, you scamp; are you after the
fruit here, eh? Get along, you naughty boy! Get along, you sniveller, to
your playmates!"

The panic-stricken boy in his desperation tried creeping under the
table. Then his persecutor, in a fury, took out his large batiste
handkerchief and began flicking it under the table at the child, who
kept perfectly quiet. It must be observed that Yulian Mastakovitch was a
little inclined to be fat. He was a sleek, red-faced, solidly built man,
paunchy, with thick legs; what is called a fine figure of a man, round
as a nut. He was perspiring, breathless, and fearfully flushed. At last
he was almost rigid, so great was his indignation and perhaps--who
knows?--his jealousy. I burst into loud laughter. Yulian Mastakovitch
turned round and, in spite of all his consequence, was overcome with
confusion. At that moment from the opposite door our host came in. The
boy crept out from under the table and wiped his elbows and his knees.
Yulian Mastakovitch hastened to put to his nose the handkerchief which
he was holding in his hand by one end.

Our host looked at the three of us in some perplexity; but as a man who
knew something of life, and looked at it from a serious point of view,
he at once availed himself of the chance of catching his visitor by
himself.

"Here, this is the boy," he said, pointing to the red-haired boy, "for
whom I had the honour to solicit your influence."

"Ah!" said Yulian Mastakovitch, who had hardly quite recovered himself.

"The son of my children's governess," said our host, in a tone of a
petitioner, "a poor woman, the widow of an honest civil servant; and
therefore ... and therefore, Yulian Mastakovitch, if it were possible
..."

"Oh, no, no!" Yulian Mastakovitch made haste to answer; "no, excuse me,
Filip Alexyevitch, it's quite impossible. I've made inquiries; there's
no vacancy, and if there were, there are twenty applicants who have far
more claim than he.... I am very sorry, very sorry...."

"What a pity," said our host. "He is a quiet, well-behaved boy."

"A great rascal, as I notice," answered Yulian Mastakovitch, with a
nervous twist of his lip. "Get along, boy; why are you standing there?
Go to your playmates," he said, addressing the child.

At that point he could not contain himself, and glanced at me out of one
eye. I, too, could not contain myself, and laughed straight in his face.
Yulian Mastakovitch turned away at once, and in a voice calculated to
reach my ear, asked who was that strange young man? They whispered
together and walked out of the room. I saw Yulian Mastakovitch
afterwards shaking his head incredulously as our host talked to him.

After laughing to my heart's content I returned to the drawing-room.
There the great man, surrounded by fathers and mothers of families,
including the host and hostess, was saying something very warmly to a
lady to whom he had just been introduced. The lady was holding by the
hand the little girl with whom Yulian Mastakovitch had had the scene in
the parlour a little while before. Now he was launching into praises and
raptures over the beauty, the talents, the grace and the charming
manners of the charming child. He was unmistakably making up to the
mamma. The mother listened to him almost with tears of delight. The
father's lips were smiling. Our host was delighted at the general
satisfaction. All the guests, in fact, were sympathetically gratified;
even the children's games were checked that they might not hinder the
conversation: the whole atmosphere was saturated with reverence. I heard
afterwards the mamma of the interesting child, deeply touched, beg
Yulian Mastakovitch, in carefully chosen phrases, to do her the special
honour of bestowing upon them the precious gift of his acquaintance, and
heard with what unaffected delight Yulian Mastakovitch accepted the
invitation, and how afterwards the guests, dispersing in different
directions, moving away with the greatest propriety, poured out to one
another the most touchingly flattering comments upon the contractor, his
wife, his little girl, and, above all, upon Yulian Mastakovitch.

"Is that gentleman married?" I asked, almost aloud, of one of my
acquaintances, who was standing nearest to Yulian Mastakovitch. Yulian
Mastakovitch flung a searching and vindictive glance at me.

"No!" answered my acquaintance, chagrined to the bottom of his heart by
the awkwardness of which I had intentionally been guilty....

       *     *     *     *     *

I passed lately by a certain church; I was struck by the crowd of people
in carriages. I heard people talking of the wedding. It was a cloudy
day, it was beginning to sleet. I made my way through the crowd at the
door and saw the bridegroom. He was a sleek, well-fed, round, paunchy
man, very gorgeously dressed up. He was running fussily about, giving
orders. At last the news passed through the crowd that the bride was
coming. I squeezed my way through the crowd and saw a marvellous beauty,
who could scarcely have reached her first season. But the beauty was
pale and melancholy. She looked preoccupied; I even fancied that her
eyes were red with recent weeping. The classic severity of every feature
of her face gave a certain dignity and seriousness to her beauty. But
through that sternness and dignity, through that melancholy, could be
seen the look of childish innocence; something indescribably naïve,
fluid, youthful, which seemed mutely begging for mercy.

People were saying that she was only just sixteen. Glancing attentively
at the bridegroom, I suddenly recognized him as Yulian Mastakovitch,
whom I had not seen for five years. I looked at her. My God! I began to
squeeze my way as quickly as I could out of the church. I heard people
saying in the crowd that the bride was an heiress, that she had a dowry
of five hundred thousand ... and a trousseau worth ever so much.

"It was a good stroke of business, though!" I thought as I made my way
into the street.

POLZUNKOV

A STORY

I began to scrutinize the man closely. Even in his exterior there was
something so peculiar that it compelled one, however far away one's
thoughts might be, to fix one's eyes upon him and go off into the most
irrepressible roar of laughter. That is what happened to me. I must
observe that the little man's eyes were so mobile, or perhaps he was so
sensitive to the magnetism of every eye fixed upon him, that he almost
by instinct guessed that he was being observed, turned at once to the
observer and anxiously analysed his expression. His continual mobility,
his turning and twisting, made him look strikingly like a dancing doll.
It was strange! He seemed afraid of jeers, in spite of the fact that he
was almost getting his living by being a buffoon for all the world, and
exposed himself to every buffet in a moral sense and even in a physical
one, judging from the company he was in. Voluntary buffoons are not even
to be pitied. But I noticed at once that this strange creature, this
ridiculous man, was by no means a buffoon by profession. There was still
something gentlemanly in him. His very uneasiness, his continual
apprehensiveness about himself, were actually a testimony in his favour.
It seemed to me that his desire to be obliging was due more to kindness
of heart than to mercenary considerations. He readily allowed them to
laugh their loudest at him and in the most unseemly way, to his face,
but at the same time--and I am ready to take my oath on it--his heart
ached and was sore at the thought that his listeners were so caddishly
brutal as to be capable of laughing, not at anything said or done, but
at him, at his whole being, at his heart, at his head, at his
appearance, at his whole body, flesh and blood. I am convinced that he
felt at that moment all the foolishness of his position; but the protest
died away in his heart at once, though it invariably sprang up again in
the most heroic way. I am convinced that all this was due to nothing
else but a kind heart, and not to fear of the inconvenience of being
kicked out and being unable to borrow money from some one. This
gentleman was for ever borrowing money, that is, he asked for alms in
that form, when after playing the fool and entertaining them at his
expense he felt in a certain sense entitled to borrow money from them.
But, good heavens! what a business the borrowing was! And with what a
countenance he asked for the loan! I could not have imagined that on
such a small space as the wrinkled, angular face of that little man room
could be found, at one and the same time, for so many different
grimaces, for such strange, variously characteristic shades of feeling,
such absolutely killing expressions. Everything was there--shame and an
assumption of insolence, and vexation at the sudden flushing of his
face, and anger and fear of failure, and entreaty to be forgiven for
having dared to pester, and a sense of his own dignity, and a still
greater sense of his own abjectness--all this passed over his face like
lightning. For six whole years he had struggled along in God's world in
this way, and so far had been unable to take up a fitting attitude at
the interesting moment of borrowing money! I need not say that he never
could grow callous and completely abject. His heart was too sensitive,
too passionate! I will say more, indeed: in my opinion, he was one of
the most honest and honourable men in the world, but with a little
weakness: of being ready to do anything abject at any one's bidding,
good-naturedly and disinterestedly, simply to oblige a fellow-creature.
In short, he was what is called "a rag" in the fullest sense of the
word. The most absurd thing was, that he was dressed like any one else,
neither worse nor better, tidily, even with a certain elaborateness, and
actually had pretentions to respectability and personal dignity. This
external equality and internal inequality, his uneasiness about himself
and at the same time his continual self-depreciation--all this was
strikingly incongruous and provocative of laughter and pity. If he had
been convinced in his heart (and in spite of his experience it did
happen to him at moments to believe this) that his audience were the
most good-natured people in the world, who were simply laughing at
something amusing, and not at the sacrifice of his personal dignity, he
would most readily have taken off his coat, put it on wrong side
outwards, and have walked about the streets in that attire for the
diversion of others and his own gratification. But equality he could
never anyhow attain. Another trait: the queer fellow was proud, and
even, by fits and starts, when it was not too risky, generous. It was
worth seeing and hearing how he could sometimes, not sparing himself,
consequently with pluck, almost with heroism, dispose of one of his
patrons who had infuriated him to madness. But that was at moments....
In short, he was a martyr in the fullest sense of the word, but the most
useless and consequently the most comic martyr.

There was a general discussion going on among the guests. All at once I
saw our queer friend jump upon his chair, and call out at the top of his
voice, anxious for the exclusive attention of the company.

"Listen," the master of the house whispered to me. "He sometimes tells
the most curious stories.... Does he interest you?"

I nodded and squeezed myself into the group. The sight of a well-dressed
gentleman jumping upon his chair and shouting at the top of his voice
did, in fact, draw the attention of all. Many who did not know the queer
fellow looked at one another in perplexity, the others roared with
laughter.

"I knew Fedosey Nikolaitch. I ought to know Fedosey Nikolaitch better
than any one!" cried the queer fellow from his elevation. "Gentlemen,
allow me to tell you something. I can tell you a good story about
Fedosey Nikolaitch! I know a story--exquisite!"

"Tell it, Osip Mihalitch, tell it."

"Tell it."

"Listen."

"Listen, listen."

"I begin; but, gentlemen, this is a peculiar story...."

"Very good, very good."

"It's a comic story."

"Very good, excellent, splendid. Get on!"

"It is an episode in the private life of your humble...."

"But why do you trouble yourself to announce that it's comic?"

"And even somewhat tragic!"

"Eh???!"

"In short, the story which it will afford you all pleasure to hear me
now relate, gentlemen--the story, in consequence of which I have come
into company so interesting and profitable...."

"No puns!"

"This story."

"In short the story--make haste and finish the introduction. The story,
which has its value," a fair-haired young man with moustaches pronounced
in a husky voice, dropping his hand into his coat pocket and, as though
by chance, pulling out a purse instead of his handkerchief.

"The story, my dear sirs, after which I should like to see many of you
in my place. And, finally, the story, in consequence of which I have not
married."

"Married! A wife! Polzunkov tried to get married!!"

"I confess I should like to see Madame Polzunkov."

"Allow me to inquire the name of the would-be Madame Polzunkov," piped a
youth, making his way up to the storyteller.

"And so for the first chapter, gentlemen. It was just six years ago, in
spring, the thirty-first of March--note the date, gentlemen--on the
eve...."

"Of the first of April!" cried a young man with ringlets.

"You are extraordinarily quick at guessing. It was evening. Twilight was
gathering over the district town of N., the moon was about to float out
... everything in proper style, in fact. And so in the very late
twilight I, too, floated out of my poor lodging on the sly--after taking
leave of my restricted granny, now dead. Excuse me, gentlemen, for
making use of such a fashionable expression, which I heard for the last
time from Nikolay Nikolaitch. But my granny was indeed restricted: she
was blind, dumb, deaf, stupid--everything you please.... I confess I was
in a tremor, I was prepared for great deeds; my heart was beating like a
kitten's when some bony hand clutches it by the scruff of the neck."

"Excuse me, Monsieur Polzunkov."

"What do you want?"

"Tell it more simply; don't over-exert yourself, please!"

"All right," said Osip Mihalitch, a little taken aback. "I went into the
house of Fedosey Nikolaitch (the house that he had bought). Fedosey
Nikolaitch, as you know, is not a mere colleague, but the full-blown
head of a department. I was announced, and was at once shown into the
study. I can see it now; the room was dark, almost dark, but candles
were not brought. Behold, Fedosey Nikolaitch walks in. There he and I
were left in the darkness...."

"Whatever happened to you?" asked an officer.

"What do you suppose?" asked Polzunkov, turning promptly, with a
convulsively working face, to the young man with ringlets. "Well,
gentlemen, a strange circumstance occurred, though indeed there was
nothing strange in it: it was what is called an everyday affair--I
simply took out of my pocket a roll of paper ... and he a roll of
paper."

"Paper notes?"

"Paper notes; and we exchanged."

"I don't mind betting that there's a flavour of bribery about it,"
observed a respectably dressed, closely cropped young gentleman.

"Bribery!" Polzunkov caught him up.

          "'Oh, may I be a Liberal,
            Such as many I have seen!'

If you, too, when it is your lot to serve in the provinces, do not warm
your hands at your country's hearth.... For as an author said: 'Even the
smoke of our native land is sweet to us.' She is our Mother, gentlemen,
our Mother Russia; we are her babes, and so we suck her!"

There was a roar of laughter.

"Only would you believe it, gentlemen, I have never taken bribes?" said
Polzunkov, looking round at the whole company distrustfully.

A prolonged burst of Homeric laughter drowned Polzunkov's words in
guffaws.

"It really is so, gentlemen...."

But here he stopped, still looking round at every one with a strange
expression of face; perhaps--who knows?--at that moment the thought came
into his mind that he was more honest than many of all that honourable
company.... Anyway, the serious expression of his face did not pass away
till the general merriment was quite over.

"And so," Polzunkov began again when all was still, "though I never did
take bribes, yet that time I transgressed; I put in my pocket a bribe
... from a bribe-taker ... that is, there were certain papers in my
hands which, if I had cared to send to a certain person, it would have
gone ill with Fedosey Nikolaitch."

"So then he bought them from you?"

"He did."

"Did he give much?"

"He gave as much as many a man nowadays would sell his conscience for
complete, with all its variations ... if only he could get anything for
it. But I felt as though I were scalded when I put the money in my
pocket. I really don't understand what always comes over me,
gentlemen--but I was more dead than alive, my lips twitched and my legs
trembled; well, I was to blame, to blame, entirely to blame. I was
utterly conscience-stricken; I was ready to beg Fedosey Nikolaitch's
forgiveness."

"Well, what did he do--did he forgive you?"

"But I didn't ask his forgiveness.... I only mean that that is how I
felt. Then I have a sensitive heart, you know. I saw he was looking me
straight in the face. 'Have you no fear of God, Osip Mihailitch?' said
he. Well, what could I do? From a feeling of propriety I put my head on
one side and I flung up my hands. 'In what way,' said I, 'have I no fear
of God, Fedosey Nikolaitch?' But I just said that from a feeling of
propriety.... I was ready to sink into the earth. 'After being so long a
friend of our family, after being, I may say, like a son--and who knows
what Heaven had in store for us, Osip Mihailitch?--and all of a sudden
to inform against me--to think of that now!... What am I to think of
mankind after that, Osip Mihailitch?' Yes, gentlemen, he did read me a
lecture! 'Come,' he said, 'you tell me what I am to think of mankind
after that, Osip Mihailitch.' 'What is he to think?' I thought; and do
you know, there was a lump in my throat, and my voice was quivering, and
knowing my hateful weakness, I snatched up my hat. 'Where are you off
to, Osip Mihailitch? Surely on the eve of such a day you cannot bear
malice against me? What wrong have I done you?...' 'Fedosey Nikolaitch,'
I said, 'Fedosey Nikolaitch....' In fact, I melted, gentlemen, I melted
like a sugar-stick. And the roll of notes that was lying in my pocket,
that, too, seemed screaming out: 'You ungrateful brigand, you accursed
thief!' It seemed to weigh a hundredweight ... (if only it had weighed a
hundredweight!).... 'I see,' says Fedosey Nikolaitch, 'I see your
penitence ... you know to-morrow....' 'St. Mary of Egypt's day....'
'Well, don't weep,' said Fedosey Nikolaitch, 'that's enough: you've
erred, and you are penitent! Come along! Maybe I may succeed in bringing
you back again into the true path,' says he ... 'maybe, my modest
Penates' (yes,'Penates,' I remember he used that expression, the rascal)
'will warm,' says he, 'your harden ... I will not say hardened, but
erring heart....' He took me by the arm, gentlemen, and led me to his
family circle. A cold shiver ran down my back; I shuddered! I thought
with what eyes shall I present myself--you must know, gentlemen ... eh,
what shall I say?--a delicate position had arisen here."

"Not Madame Polzunkov?"

"Marya Fedosyevna, only she was not destined, you know, to bear the name
you have given her; she did not attain that honour. Fedosey Nikolaitch
was right, you see, when he said that I was almost looked upon as a son
in the house; it had been so, indeed, six months before, when a certain
retired junker called Mihailo Maximitch Dvigailov, was still living. But
by God's will he died, and he put off settling his affairs till death
settled his business for him."

"Ough!"

"Well, never mind, gentlemen, forgive me, it was a slip of the tongue.
It's a bad pun, but it doesn't matter it's being bad--what happened was
far worse, when I was left, so to say, with nothing in prospect but a
bullet through the brain, for that junker, though he would not admit me
into his house (he lived in grand style, for he had always known how to
feather his nest), yet perhaps correctly he believed me to be his son."

"Aha!"

"Yes, that was how it was! So they began to cold-shoulder me at Fedosey
Nikolaitch's. I noticed things, I kept quiet; but all at once, unluckily
for me (or perhaps luckily!), a cavalry officer galloped into our little
town like snow on our head. His business--buying horses for the
army--was light and active, in cavalry style, but he settled himself
solidly at Fedosey Nikolaitch's, as though he were laying siege to it! I
approached the subject in a roundabout way, as my nasty habit is; I said
one thing and another, asking him what I had done to be treated so,
saying that I was almost like a son to him, and when might I expect him
to behave more like a father.... Well, he began answering me. And when
he begins to speak you are in for a regular epic in twelve cantos, and
all you can do is to listen, lick your lips and throw up your hands in
delight. And not a ha'p'orth of sense, at least there's no making out
the sense. You stand puzzled like a fool--he puts you in a fog, he
twists about like an eel and wriggles away from you. It's a special
gift, a real gift--it's enough to frighten people even if it is no
concern of theirs. I tried one thing and another, and went hither and
thither. I took the lady songs and presented her with sweets and thought
of witty things to say to her. I tried sighing and groaning. 'My heart
aches,' I said, 'it aches from love.' And I went in for tears and secret
explanations. Man is foolish, you know.... I never reminded myself that
I was thirty ... not a bit of it! I tried all my arts. It was no go. It
was a failure, and I gained nothing but jeers and gibes. I was
indignant, I was choking with anger. I slunk off and would not set foot
in the house. I thought and thought and made up my mind to denounce him.
Well, of course, it was a shabby thing--I meant to give away a friend, I
confess. I had heaps of material and splendid material--a grand case. It
brought me fifteen hundred roubles when I changed it and my report on it
for bank notes!"

"Ah, so that was the bribe!"

"Yes, sir, that was the bribe--and it was a bribe-taker who had to pay
it--and I didn't do wrong, I can assure you! Well, now I will go on: he
drew me, if you will kindly remember, more dead than alive into the room
where they were having tea. They all met me, seeming as it were
offended, that is, not exactly offended, but hurt--so hurt that it was
simply.... They seemed shattered, absolutely shattered, and at the same
time there was a look of becoming dignity on their faces, a gravity in
their expression, something fatherly, parental ... the prodigal son had
come back to them--that's what it had come to! They made me sit down to
tea, but there was no need to do that: I felt as though a samovar was
toiling in my bosom and my feet were like ice. I was humbled, I was
cowed. Marya Fominishna, his wife, addressed me familiarly from the
first word.

"'How is it you have grown so thin, my boy?'

"'I've not been very well, Marya Fominishna,' I said. My wretched voice
shook.

"And then quite suddenly--she must have been waiting for a chance to get
a dig at me, the old snake--she said--

"'I suppose your conscience felt ill at ease, Osip Mihalitch, my dear!
Our fatherly hospitality was a reproach to you! You have been punished
for the tears I have shed.'

"Yes, upon my word, she really said that--she had the conscience to say
it. Why, that was nothing to her, she was a terror! She did nothing but
sit there and pour out tea. But if you were in the market, my darling, I
thought you'd shout louder than any fishwife there.... That's the kind
of woman she was. And then, to my undoing, the daughter, Marya
Fedosyevna, came in, in all her innocence, a little pale and her eyes
red as though she had been weeping. I was bowled over on the spot like a
fool. But it turned out afterwards that the tears were a tribute to the
cavalry officer. He had made tracks for home and taken his hook for good
and all; for you know it was high time for him to be off--I may as well
mention the fact here; not that his leave was up precisely, but you
see.... It was only later that the loving parents grasped the position
and had found out all that had happened.... What could they do? They
hushed their trouble up--an addition to the family!

"Well, I could not help it--as soon as I looked at her I was done for; I
stole a glance at my hat, I wanted to get up and make off. But there was
no chance of that, they took away my hat.... I must confess, I did think
of getting off without it. 'Well!' I thought--but no, they latched the
doors. There followed friendly jokes, winking, little airs and graces. I
was overcome with embarrassment, said something stupid, talked nonsense,
about love. My charmer sat down to the piano and with an air of wounded
feeling sang the song about the hussar who leaned upon the sword--that
finished me off!

"'Well,' said Fedosey Nikolaitch, 'all is forgotten, come to my arms!'

"I fell just as I was, with my face on his waistcoat.

"'My benefactor! You are a father to me!' said I. And I shed floods of
hot tears. Lord, have mercy on us, what a to-do there was! He cried, his
good lady cried, Mashenka cried ... there was a flaxen-headed creature
there, she cried too.... That wasn't enough: the younger children crept
out of all the corners (the Lord had filled their quiver full) and they
howled too.... Such tears, such emotion, such joy! They found their
prodigal, it was like a soldier's return to his home. Then followed
refreshments, we played forfeits, and 'I have a pain'--'Where is
it?'--'In my heart'--'Who gave it you?' My charmer blushed. The old man
and I had some punch--they won me over and did for me completely.

"I returned to my grandmother with my head in a whirl. I was laughing
all the way home; for full two hours I paced up and down our little
room. I waked up my old granny and told her of my happiness.

"'But did he give you any money, the brigand?'

"'He did, granny, he did, my dear--luck has come to us all of a heap:
we've only to open our hand and take it.'

"I waked up Sofron.

"'Sofron,' I said, 'take off my boots.'

"Sofron pulled off my boots.

"'Come, Sofron, congratulate me now, give me a kiss! I am going to get
married, my lad, I am going to get married. You can get jolly drunk
to-morrow, you can have a spree, my dear soul--your master is getting
married.'

"My heart was full of jokes and laughter. I was beginning to drop off to
sleep, but something made me get up again. I sat in thought: to-morrow
is the first of April, a bright and playful day--what should I do? And I
thought of something. Why, gentlemen, I got out of bed, lighted a
candle, and sat down to the writing-table just as I was. I was in a
fever of excitement, quite carried away--you know, gentlemen, what it is
when a man is quite carried away? I wallowed joyfully in the mud, my
dear friends. You see what I am like; they take something from you, and
you give them something else as well and say, 'Take that, too.' They
strike you on the cheek and in your joy you offer them your whole back.
Then they try to lure you like a dog with a bun, and you embrace them
with your foolish paws and fall to kissing them with all your heart and
soul. Why, see what I am doing now, gentlemen! You are laughing and
whispering--I see it! After I have told you all my story you will begin
to turn me into ridicule, you will begin to attack me, but yet I go on
talking and talking and talking! And who tells me to? Who drives me to
do it? Who is standing behind my back whispering to me, 'Speak, speak
and tell them'? And yet I do talk, I go on telling you, I try to please
you as though you were my brothers, all my dearest friends.... Ech!"

The laughter which had sprung up by degrees on all sides completely
drowned at last the voice of the speaker, who really seemed worked up
into a sort of ecstasy. He paused, for several minutes his eyes strayed
about the company, then suddenly, as though carried away by a whirlwind,
he waved his hand, burst out laughing himself, as though he really found
his position amusing, and fell to telling his story again.

"I scarcely slept all night, gentlemen. I was scribbling all night: you
see, I thought of a trick. Ech, gentlemen, the very thought of it makes
me ashamed. It wouldn't have been so bad if it all had been done at
night--I might have been drunk, blundered, been silly and talked
nonsense--but not a bit of it! I woke up in the morning as soon as it
was light, I hadn't slept more than an hour or two, and was in the same
mind. I dressed, I washed, I curled and pomaded my hair, put on my new
dress coat and went straight off to spend the holiday with Fedosey
Nikolaitch, and I kept the joke I had written in my hat. He met me again
with open arms, and invited me again to his fatherly waistcoat. But I
assumed an air of dignity. I had the joke I thought of the night before
in my mind. I drew a step back.

"'No, Fedosey Nikolaitch, but will you please read this letter,' and I
gave it him together with my daily report. And do you know what was in
it? Why, 'for such and such reasons the aforesaid Osip Mihalitch asks to
be discharged,' and under my petition I signed my full rank! Just think
what a notion! Good Lord, it was the cleverest thing I could think of!
As to-day was the first of April, I was pretending, for the sake of a
joke, that my resentment was not over, that I had changed my mind in the
night and was grumpy, and more offended than ever, as though to say, 'My
dear benefactor, I don't want to know you nor your daughter either. I
put the money in my pocket yesterday, so I am secure--so here's my
petition for a transfer to be discharged. I don't care to serve under
such a chief as Fedosey Nikolaitch. I want to go into a different office
and then, maybe, I'll inform.' I pretended to be a regular scoundrel, I
wanted to frighten them. And a nice way of frightening them, wasn't it?
A pretty thing, gentlemen, wasn't it? You see, my heart had grown tender
towards them since the day before, so I thought I would have a little
joke at the family--I would tease the fatherly heart of Fedosey
Nikolaitch.

"As soon as he took my letter and opened it, I saw his whole countenance
change.

"'What's the meaning of this, Osip Mihalitch?'

"And like a little fool I said--

"'The first of April! Many happy returns of the day, Fedosey
Nikolaitch!' just like a silly school-boy who hides behind his
grandmother's arm-chair and then shouts 'oof' into her ear suddenly at
the top of his voice, meaning to frighten her. Yes ... yes, I feel quite
ashamed to talk about it, gentlemen! No, I won't tell you."

"Nonsense! What happened then?"

"Nonsense, nonsense! Tell us! Yes, do," rose on all sides.

"There was an outcry and a hullabaloo, my dear friends! Such
exclamations of surprise! And 'you mischievous fellow, you naughty man,'
and what a fright I had given them--and all so sweet that I felt ashamed
and wondered how such a holy place could be profaned by a sinner like
me.

"'Well, my dear boy,' piped the mamma, 'you gave me such a fright that
my legs are all of a tremble still, I can hardly stand on my feet! I ran
to Masha as though I were crazy: "Mashenka," I said, "what will become
of us! See how _your_ friend has turned out!" and I was unjust to you,
my dear boy. You must forgive an old woman like me, I was taken in!
Well, I thought, when he got home last night, he got home late, he began
thinking and perhaps he fancied that we sent for him on purpose,
yesterday, that we wanted to get hold of him. I turned cold at the
thought! Give over, Mashenka, don't go on winking at me--Osip Mihalitch
isn't a stranger! I am your mother, I am not likely to say any harm!
Thank God, I am not twenty, but turned forty-five.'

"Well, gentlemen, I almost flopped at her feet on the spot. Again there
were tears, again there were kisses. Jokes began. Fedosey Nikolaitch,
too, thought he would make April fools of us. He told us the fiery bird
had flown up with a letter in her diamond beak! He tried to take us in,
too--didn't we laugh? weren't we touched? Foo! I feel ashamed to talk
about it.

"Well, my good friends, the end is not far off now. One day
passed, two, three, a week; I was regularly engaged to her. I should
think so! The wedding rings were ordered, the day was fixed, only they
did not want to make it public for a time--they wanted to wait for the
Inspector's visit to be over. I was all impatience for the Inspector's
arrival--my happiness depended upon him. I was in a hurry to get his
visit over. And in the excitement and rejoicing Fedosey Nikolaitch threw
all the work upon me: writing up the accounts, making up the reports,
checking the books, balancing the totals. I found things in terrible
disorder--everything had been neglected, there were muddles and
irregularities everywhere. Well, I thought, I must do my best for my
father-in-law! And he was ailing all the time, he was taken ill, it
appears; he seemed to get worse day by day. And, indeed, I grew as thin
as a rake myself, I was afraid I would break down. However, I finished
the work grandly. I got things straight for him in time.

"Suddenly they sent a messenger for me. I ran headlong--what could it
be? I saw my Fedosey Nikolaitch, his head bandaged up in a vinegar
compress, frowning, sighing, and moaning.

"'My dear boy, my son,' he said, 'if I die, to whom shall I leave you,
my darlings?'

"His wife trailed in with all his children; Mashenka was in tears and I
blubbered, too.

"'Oh no,' he said. 'God will be merciful, He will not visit my
transgressions on you.'

"Then he dismissed them all, told me to shut the door after them, and we
were left alone, _tête-à-tête_.

"'I have a favour to ask of you.'

"'What favour?'

"'Well, my dear boy, there is no rest for me even on my deathbed. I am
in want.'

"'How so?' I positively flushed crimson, I could hardly speak.

"'Why, I had to pay some of my own money into the Treasury. I grudge
nothing for the public weal, my boy! I don't grudge my life. Don't you
imagine any ill. I am sad to think that slanderers have blackened my
name to you.... You were mistaken, my hair has gone white from grief.
The Inspector is coming down upon us and Matveyev is seven thousand
roubles short, and I shall have to answer for it.... Who else? It will
be visited upon me, my boy: where were my eyes? And how can we get it
from Matveyev? He has had trouble enough already: why should I bring the
poor fellow to ruin?'

"'Holy saints!' I thought, 'what a just man! What a heart!'

"'And I don't want to take my daughter's money, which has been set aside
for her dowry: that sum is sacred. I have money of my own, it's true,
but I have lent it all to friends--how is one to collect it all in a
minute?'

"I simply fell on my knees before him. 'My benefactor!' I cried, 'I've
wronged you, I have injured you; it was slanderers who wrote against
you; don't break my heart, take back your money!'

"He looked at me and there were tears in his eyes. 'That was just what I
expected from you, my son. Get up! I forgave you at the time for the
sake of my daughter's tears--now my heart forgives you freely! You have
healed my wounds. I bless you for all time!'

"Well, when he blessed me, gentlemen, I scurried home as soon as I
could. I got the money:

"'Here, father, here's the money. I've only spent fifty roubles.'

"'Well, that's all right,' he said. 'But now every trifle may count; the
time is short, write a report dated some days ago that you were short of
money and had taken fifty roubles on account. I'll tell the authorities
you had it in advance.'

"Well, gentlemen, what do you think? I did write that report, too!"

"Well, what then? What happened? How did it end?"

"As soon as I had written the report, gentlemen, this is how it ended.
The next day, in the early morning, an envelope with a government seal
arrived. I looked at it and what had I got? The sack! That is,
instructions to hand over my work, to deliver the accounts--and to go
about my business!"

"How so?"

"That's just what I cried at the top of my voice, 'How so?' Gentlemen,
there was a ringing in my ears. I thought there was no special reason
for it--but no, the Inspector had arrived in the town. My heart sank.
'It's not for nothing,' I thought. And just as I was I rushed off to
Fedosey Nikolaitch.

"'How is this?' I said.

"'What do you mean?' he said.

"'Why, I am dismissed.'

"'Dismissed? how?'

"'Why, look at this!'

"'Well, what of it?'

"'Why, but I didn't ask for it!'

"'Yes, you did--you sent in your papers on the first of--April.' (I had
never taken that letter back!)

"'Fedosey Nikolaitch! I can't believe my ears, I can't believe my eyes!
Is this you?'

"'It is me, why?'

"'My God!'

"'I am sorry, sir. I am very sorry that you made up your mind to retire
from the service so early. A young man ought to be in the service, and
you've begun to be a little light-headed of late. And as for your
character, set your mind at rest: I'll see to that! Your behaviour has
always been so exemplary!'

"'But that was a little joke, Fedosey Nikolaitch! I didn't mean it, I
just gave you the letter for your fatherly ... that's all.'

"'That's all? A queer joke, sir! Does one jest with documents like that?
Why, you are sometimes sent to Siberia for such jokes. Now, good-bye. I
am busy. We have the Inspector here--the duties of the service before
everything; you can kick up your heels, but we have to sit here at work.
But I'll get you a character---- Oh, another thing: I've just bought a
house from Matveyev. We are moving in in a day or two. So I expect I
shall not have the pleasure of seeing you at our new residence. _Bon
voyage!_'

"I ran home.

"'We are lost, granny!'

"She wailed, poor dear, and then I saw the page from Fedosey
Nikolaitch's running up with a note and a bird-cage, and in the cage
there was a starling. In the fullness of my heart I had given her the
starling. And in the note there were the words: 'April 1st,' and nothing
more. What do you think of that, gentlemen?"

"What happened then? What happened then?"

"What then! I met Fedosey Nikolaitch once, I meant to tell him to his
face he was a scoundrel."

"Well?"

"But somehow I couldn't bring myself to it, gentlemen."

A LITTLE HERO

A STORY

At that time I was nearly eleven, I had been sent in July to spend the
holiday in a village near Moscow with a relation of mine called T.,
whose house was full of guests, fifty, or perhaps more.... I don't
remember, I didn't count. The house was full of noise and gaiety. It
seemed as though it were a continual holiday, which would never end. It
seemed as though our host had taken a vow to squander all his vast
fortune as rapidly as possible, and he did indeed succeed, not long ago,
in justifying this surmise, that is, in making a clean sweep of it all
to the last stick.

Fresh visitors used to drive up every minute. Moscow was close by, in
sight, so that those who drove away only made room for others, and the
everlasting holiday went on its course. Festivities succeeded one
another, and there was no end in sight to the entertainments. There were
riding parties about the environs; excursions to the forest or the
river; picnics, dinners in the open air; suppers on the great terrace of
the house, bordered with three rows of gorgeous flowers that flooded
with their fragrance the fresh night air, and illuminated the brilliant
lights which made our ladies, who were almost every one of them pretty
at all times, seem still more charming, with their faces excited by the
impressions of the day, with their sparkling eyes, with their
interchange of spritely conversation, their peals of ringing laughter;
dancing, music, singing; if the sky were overcast tableaux vivants,
charades, proverbs were arranged, private theatricals were got up. There
were good talkers, story-tellers, wits.

Certain persons were prominent in the foreground. Of course backbiting
and slander ran their course, as without them the world could not get
on, and millions of persons would perish of boredom, like flies. But as
I was at that time eleven I was absorbed by very different interests,
and either failed to observe these people, or if I noticed anything, did
not see it all. It was only afterwards that some things came back to my
mind. My childish eyes could only see the brilliant side of the picture,
and the general animation, splendour, and bustle--all that, seen and
heard for the first time, made such an impression upon me that for the
first few days, I was completely bewildered and my little head was in a
whirl.

I keep speaking of my age, and of course I was a child, nothing more
than a child. Many of these lovely ladies petted me without dreaming of
considering my age. But strange to say, a sensation which I did not
myself understand already had possession of me; something was already
whispering in my heart, of which till then it had had no knowledge, no
conception, and for some reason it began all at once to burn and throb,
and often my face glowed with a sudden flush. At times I felt as it were
abashed, and even resentful of the various privileges of my childish
years. At other times a sort of wonder overwhelmed me, and I would go
off into some corner where I could sit unseen, as though to take breath
and remember something--something which it seemed to me I had remembered
perfectly till then, and now had suddenly forgotten, something without
which I could not show myself anywhere, and could not exist at all.

At last it seemed to me as though I were hiding something from every
one. But nothing would have induced me to speak of it to any one,
because, small boy that I was, I was ready to weep with shame. Soon in
the midst of the vortex around me I was conscious of a certain
loneliness. There were other children, but all were either much older or
younger than I; besides, I was in no mood for them. Of course nothing
would have happened to me if I had not been in an exceptional position.
In the eyes of those charming ladies I was still the little unformed
creature whom they at once liked to pet, and with whom they could play
as though he were a little doll. One of them particularly, a
fascinating, fair woman, with very thick luxuriant hair, such as I had
never seen before and probably shall never see again, seemed to have
taken a vow never to leave me in peace. I was confused, while she was
amused by the laughter which she continually provoked from all around us
by her wild, giddy pranks with me, and this apparently gave her immense
enjoyment. At school among her schoolfellows she was probably nicknamed
the Tease. She was wonderfully good-looking, and there was something in
her beauty which drew one's eyes from the first moment. And certainly
she had nothing in common with the ordinary modest little fair girls,
white as down and soft as white mice, or pastors' daughters. She was not
very tall, and was rather plump, but had soft, delicate, exquisitely cut
features. There was something quick as lightning in her face, and indeed
she was like fire all over, light, swift, alive. Her big open eyes
seemed to flash sparks; they glittered like diamonds, and I would never
exchange such blue sparkling eyes for any black ones, were they blacker
than any Andalusian orb. And, indeed, my blonde was fully a match for
the famous brunette whose praises were sung by a great and well-known
poet, who, in a superb poem, vowed by all Castille that he was ready to
break his bones to be permitted only to touch the mantle of his divinity
with the tip of his finger. Add to that, that _my_ charmer was the
merriest in the world, the wildest giggler, playful as a child, although
she had been married for the last five years. There was a continual
laugh upon her lips, fresh as the morning rose that, with the first ray
of sunshine, opens its fragrant crimson bud with the cool dewdrops still
hanging heavy upon it.

I remember that the day after my arrival private theatricals were being
got up. The drawing-room was, as they say, packed to overflowing; there
was not a seat empty, and as I was somehow late I had to enjoy the
performance standing. But the amusing play attracted me to move
forwarder and forwarder, and unconsciously I made my way to the first
row, where I stood at last leaning my elbows on the back of an armchair,
in which a lady was sitting. It was my blonde divinity, but we had not
yet made acquaintance. And I gazed, as it happened, at her marvellous,
fascinating shoulders, plump and white as milk, though it did not matter
to me in the least whether I stared at a woman's exquisite shoulders or
at the cap with flaming ribbons that covered the grey locks of a
venerable lady in the front row. Near my blonde divinity sat a spinster
lady not in her first youth, one of those who, as I chanced to observe
later, always take refuge in the immediate neighbourhood of young and
pretty women, selecting such as are not fond of cold-shouldering young
men. But that is not the point, only this lady, noting my fixed gaze,
bent down to her neighbour and with a simper whispered something in her
ear. The blonde lady turned at once, and I remember that her glowing
eyes so flashed upon me in the half dark, that, not prepared to meet
them, I started as though I were scalded. The beauty smiled.

"Do you like what they are acting?" she asked, looking into my face with
a shy and mocking expression.

"Yes," I answered, still gazing at her with a sort of wonder that
evidently pleased her.

"But why are you standing? You'll get tired. Can't you find a seat?"

"That's just it, I can't," I answered, more occupied with my grievance
than with the beauty's sparkling eyes, and rejoicing in earnest at
having found a kind heart to whom I could confide my troubles. "I have
looked everywhere, but all the chairs are taken," I added, as though
complaining to her that all the chairs were taken.

"Come here," she said briskly, quick to act on every decision, and,
indeed, on every mad idea that flashed on her giddy brain, "come here,
and sit on my knee."

"On your knee," I repeated, taken aback. I have mentioned already that I
had begun to resent the privileges of childhood and to be ashamed of
them in earnest. This lady, as though in derision, had gone ever so much
further than the others. Moreover, I had always been a shy and bashful
boy, and of late had begun to be particularly shy with women.

"Why yes, on my knee. Why don't you want to sit on my knee?" she
persisted, beginning to laugh more and more, so that at last she was
simply giggling, goodness knows at what, perhaps at her freak, or
perhaps at my confusion. But that was just what she wanted.

I flushed, and in my confusion looked round trying to find where to
escape; but seeing my intention she managed to catch hold of my hand to
prevent me from going away, and pulling it towards her, suddenly, quite
unexpectedly, to my intense astonishment, squeezed it in her mischievous
warm fingers, and began to pinch my fingers till they hurt so much that
I had to do my very utmost not to cry out, and in my effort to control
myself made the most absurd grimaces. I was, besides, moved to the
greatest amazement, perplexity, and even horror, at the discovery that
there were ladies so absurd and spiteful as to talk nonsense to boys,
and even pinch their fingers, for no earthly reason and before
everybody. Probably my unhappy face reflected my bewilderment, for the
mischievous creature laughed in my face, as though she were crazy, and
meantime she was pinching my fingers more and more vigorously. She was
highly delighted in playing such a mischievous prank and completely
mystifying and embarrassing a poor boy. My position was desperate. In
the first place I was hot with shame, because almost every one near had
turned round to look at us, some in wonder, others with laughter,
grasping at once that the beauty was up to some mischief. I dreadfully
wanted to scream, too, for she was wringing my fingers with positive
fury just because I didn't scream; while I, like a Spartan, made up my
mind to endure the agony, afraid by crying out of causing a general
fuss, which was more than I could face. In utter despair I began at last
struggling with her, trying with all my might to pull away my hand, but
my persecutor was much stronger than I was. At last I could bear it no
longer, and uttered a shriek--that was all she was waiting for!
Instantly she let me go, and turned away as though nothing had happened,
as though it was not she who had played the trick but some one else,
exactly like some schoolboy who, as soon as the master's back is turned,
plays some trick on some one near him, pinches some small weak boy,
gives him a flip, a kick, or a nudge with his elbows, and instantly
turns again, buries himself in his book and begins repeating his lesson,
and so makes a fool of the infuriated teacher who flies down like a hawk
at the noise.

But luckily for me the general attention was distracted at the moment by
the masterly acting of our host, who was playing the chief part in the
performance, some comedy of Scribe's. Every one began to applaud; under
cover of the noise I stole away and hurried to the furthest end of the
room, from which, concealed behind a column, I looked with horror
towards the place where the treacherous beauty was sitting. She was
still laughing, holding her handkerchief to her lips. And for a long
time she was continually turning round, looking for me in every
direction, probably regretting that our silly tussle was so soon over,
and hatching some other trick to play on me.

That was the beginning of our acquaintance, and from that evening she
would never let me alone. She persecuted me without consideration or
conscience, she became my tyrant and tormentor. The whole absurdity of
her jokes with me lay in the fact that she pretended to be head over
ears in love with me, and teased me before every one. Of course for a
wild creature as I was all this was so tiresome and vexatious that it
almost reduced me to tears, and I was sometimes put in such a difficult
position that I was on the point of fighting with my treacherous
admirer. My naïve confusion, my desperate distress, seemed to egg her on
to persecute me more; she knew no mercy, while I did not know how to get
away from her. The laughter which always accompanied us, and which she
knew so well how to excite, roused her to fresh pranks. But at last
people began to think that she went a little too far in her jests. And,
indeed, as I remember now, she did take outrageous liberties with a
child such as I was.

But that was her character; she was a spoilt child in every respect. I
heard afterwards that her husband, a very short, very fat, and very
red-faced man, very rich and apparently very much occupied with
business, spoilt her more than any one. Always busy and flying round, he
could not stay two hours in one place. Every day he drove into Moscow,
sometimes twice in the day, and always, as he declared himself, on
business. It would be hard to find a livelier and more good-natured face
than his facetious but always well-bred countenance. He not only loved
his wife to the point of weakness, softness: he simply worshipped her
like an idol.

He did not restrain her in anything. She had masses of friends, male and
female. In the first place, almost everybody liked her; and secondly,
the feather-headed creature was not herself over particular in the
choice of her friends, though there was a much more serious foundation
to her character than might be supposed from what I have just said about
her. But of all her friends she liked best of all one young lady, a
distant relation, who was also of our party now. There existed between
them a tender and subtle affection, one of those attachments which
sometimes spring up at the meeting of two dispositions often the very
opposite of each other, of which one is deeper, purer and more austere,
while the other, with lofty humility, and generous self-criticism,
lovingly gives way to the other, conscious of the friend's superiority
and cherishing the friendship as a happiness. Then begins that tender
and noble subtlety in the relations of such characters, love and
infinite indulgence on the one side, on the other love and respect--a
respect approaching awe, approaching anxiety as to the impression made
on the friend so highly prized, and an eager, jealous desire to get
closer and closer to that friend's heart in every step in life.

These two friends were of the same age, but there was an immense
difference between them in everything--in looks, to begin with. Madame
M. was also very handsome, but there was something special in her beauty
that strikingly distinguished her from the crowd of pretty women; there
was something in her face that at once drew the affection of all to her,
or rather, which aroused a generous and lofty feeling of kindliness in
every one who met her. There are such happy faces. At her side everyone
grew as it were better, freer, more cordial; and yet her big mournful
eyes, full of fire and vigour, had a timid and anxious look, as though
every minute dreading something antagonistic and menacing, and this
strange timidity at times cast so mournful a shade over her mild, gentle
features which recalled the serene faces of Italian Madonnas, that
looking at her one soon became oneself sad, as though for some trouble
of one's own. The pale, thin face, in which, through the irreproachable
beauty of the pure, regular lines and the mournful severity of some mute
hidden grief, there often flitted the clear looks of early childhood,
telling of trustful years and perhaps simple-hearted happiness in the
recent past, the gentle but diffident, hesitating smile, all aroused
such unaccountable sympathy for her that every heart was unconsciously
stirred with a sweet and warm anxiety that powerfully interceded on her
behalf even at a distance, and made even strangers feel akin to her. But
the lovely creature seemed silent and reserved, though no one could have
been more attentive and loving if any one needed sympathy. There are
women who are like sisters of mercy in life. Nothing can be hidden from
them, nothing, at least, that is a sore or wound of the heart. Any one
who is suffering may go boldly and hopefully to them without fear of
being a burden, for few men know the infinite patience of love,
compassion and forgiveness that may be found in some women's hearts.
Perfect treasures of sympathy, consolation and hope are laid up in these
pure hearts, so often full of suffering of their own--for a heart which
loves much grieves much--though their wounds are carefully hidden from
the curious eye, for deep sadness is most often mute and concealed. They
are not dismayed by the depth of the wound, nor by its foulness and its
stench; any one who comes to them is deserving of help; they are, as it
were, born for heroism.... Mme. M. was tall, supple and graceful, but
rather thin. All her movements seemed somehow irregular, at times slow,
smooth, and even dignified, at times childishly hasty; and yet, at the
same time, there was a sort of timid humility in her gestures, something
tremulous and defenceless, though it neither desired nor asked for
protection.

I have mentioned already that the outrageous teasing of the treacherous
fair lady abashed me, flabbergasted me, and wounded me to the quick. But
there was for that another secret, strange and foolish reason, which I
concealed, at which I shuddered as at a skeleton. At the very thought of
it, brooding, utterly alone and overwhelmed, in some dark mysterious
corner to which the inquisitorial mocking eye of the blue-eyed rogue
could not penetrate, I almost gasped with confusion, shame and fear--in
short, I was in love; that perhaps is nonsense, that could hardly have
been. But why was it, of all the faces surrounding me, only her face
caught my attention? Why was it that it was only she whom I cared to
follow with my eyes, though I certainly had no inclination in those days
to watch ladies and seek their acquaintance? This happened most
frequently on the evenings when we were all kept indoors by bad weather,
and when, lonely, hiding in some corner of the big drawing-room, I
stared about me aimlessly, unable to find anything to do, for except my
teasing ladies, few people ever addressed me, and I was insufferably
bored on such evenings. Then I stared at the people round me, listened
to the conversation, of which I often did not understand one word, and
at that time the mild eyes, the gentle smile and lovely face of Mme. M.
(for she was the object of my passion) for some reason caught my
fascinated attention; and the strange vague, but unutterably sweet
impression remained with me. Often for hours together I could not tear
myself away from her; I studied every gesture, every movement she made,
listened to every vibration of her rich, silvery, but rather muffled
voice; but strange to say, as the result of all my observations, I felt,
mixed with a sweet and timid impression, a feeling of intense curiosity.
It seemed as though I were on the verge of some mystery.

Nothing distressed me so much as being mocked at in the presence of Mme.
M. This mockery and humorous persecution, as I thought, humiliated me.
And when there was a general burst of laughter at my expense, in which
Mme. M. sometimes could not help joining, in despair, beside myself with
misery, I used to tear myself from my tormentor and run away upstairs,
where I remained in solitude the rest of the day, not daring to show my
face in the drawing-room. I did not yet, however, understand my shame
nor my agitation; the whole process went on in me unconsciously. I had
hardly said two words to Mme. M., and indeed I should not have dared to.
But one evening after an unbearable day I turned back from an expedition
with the rest of the company. I was horribly tired and made my way home
across the garden. On a seat in a secluded avenue I saw Mme. M. She was
sitting quite alone, as though she had purposely chosen this solitary
spot, her head was drooping and she was mechanically twisting her
handkerchief. She was so lost in thought that she did not hear me till I
reached her.

Noticing me, she got up quickly from her seat, turned round, and I saw
her hurriedly wipe her eyes with her handkerchief. She was crying.
Drying her eyes, she smiled to me and walked back with me to the house.
I don't remember what we talked about; but she frequently sent me off on
one pretext or another, to pick a flower, or to see who was riding in
the next avenue. And when I walked away from her, she at once put her
handkerchief to her eyes again and wiped away rebellious tears, which
would persist in rising again and again from her heart and dropping from
her poor eyes. I realized that I was very much in her way when she sent
me off so often, and, indeed, she saw herself that I noticed it all, but
yet could not control herself, and that made my heart ache more and more
for her. I raged at myself at that moment and was almost in despair;
cursed myself for my awkwardness and lack of resource, and at the same
time did not know how to leave her tactfully, without betraying that I
had noticed her distress, but walked beside her in mournful
bewilderment, almost in alarm, utterly at a loss and unable to find a
single word to keep up our scanty conversation.

This meeting made such an impression on me that I stealthily watched
Mme. M. the whole evening with eager curiosity, and never took my eyes
off her. But it happened that she twice caught me unawares watching her,
and on the second occasion, noticing me, she gave me a smile. It was the
only time she smiled that evening. The look of sadness had not left her
face, which was now very pale. She spent the whole evening talking to an
ill-natured and quarrelsome old lady, whom nobody liked owing to her
spying and backbiting habits, but of whom every one was afraid, and
consequently every one felt obliged to be polite to her....

At ten o'clock Mme. M.'s husband arrived. Till that moment I watched her
very attentively, never taking my eyes off her mournful face; now at the
unexpected entrance of her husband I saw her start, and her pale face
turned suddenly as white as a handkerchief. It was so noticeable that
other people observed it. I overheard a fragmentary conversation from
which I guessed that Mme. M. was not quite happy; they said her husband
was as jealous as an Arab, not from love, but from vanity. He was before
all things a European, a modern man, who sampled the newest ideas and
prided himself upon them. In appearance he was a tall, dark-haired,
particularly thick-set man, with European whiskers, with a
self-satisfied, red face, with teeth white as sugar, and with an
irreproachably gentlemanly deportment. He was called a _clever man_.
Such is the name given in certain circles to a peculiar species of
mankind which grows fat at other people's expense, which does absolutely
nothing and has no desire to do anything, and whose heart has turned
into a lump of fat from everlasting slothfulness and idleness. You
continually hear from such men that there is nothing they can do owing
to certain very complicated and hostile circumstances, which "thwart
their genius," and that it was "sad to see the waste of their talents."
This is a fine phrase of theirs, their _mot d'ordre_, their watchword, a
phrase which these well-fed, fat friends of ours bring out at every
minute, so that it has long ago bored us as an arrant Tartuffism, an
empty form of words. Some, however, of these amusing creatures, who
cannot succeed in finding anything to do--though, indeed, they never
seek it--try to make every one believe that they have not a lump of fat
for a heart, but on the contrary, something _very deep_, though what
precisely the greatest surgeon would hardly venture to decide--from
civility, of course. These gentlemen make their way in the world through
the fact that all their instincts are bent in the direction of coarse
sneering, short-sighted censure and immense conceit. Since they have
nothing else to do but note and emphasize the mistakes and weaknesses of
others, and as they have precisely as much good feeling as an oyster, it
is not difficult for them with such powers of self-preservation to get
on with people fairly successfully. They pride themselves extremely upon
that. They are, for instance, as good as persuaded that almost the whole
world owes them something; that it is theirs, like an oyster which they
keep in reserve; that all are fools except themselves; that every one is
like an orange or a sponge, which they will squeeze as soon as they want
the juice; that they are the masters everywhere, and that all this
acceptable state of affairs is solely due to the fact that they are
people of so much intellect and character. In their measureless conceit
they do not admit any defects in themselves, they are like that species
of practical rogues, innate Tartuffes and Falstaffs, who are such
thorough rogues that at last they have come to believe that that is as
it should be, that is, that they should spend their lives in
knavishness; they have so often assured every one that they are honest
men, that they have come to believe that they are honest men, and that
their roguery is honesty. They are never capable of inner judgment
before their conscience, of generous self-criticism; for some things
they are too fat. Their own priceless personality, their Baal and
Moloch, their magnificent _ego_ is always in their foreground
everywhere. All nature, the whole world for them is no more than a
splendid mirror created for the little god to admire himself continually
in it, and to see no one and nothing behind himself; so it is not
strange that he sees everything in the world in such a hideous light. He
has a phrase in readiness for everything and--the acme of ingenuity on
his part--the most fashionable phrase. It is just these people, indeed,
who help to make the fashion, proclaiming at every cross-road an idea in
which they scent success. A fine nose is just what they have for
sniffing a fashionable phrase and making it their own before other
people get hold of it, so that it seems to have originated with them.
They have a particular store of phrases for proclaiming their profound
sympathy for humanity, for defining what is the most correct and
rational form of philanthropy, and continually attacking romanticism, in
other words, everything fine and true, each atom of which is more
precious than all their mollusc tribe. But they are too coarse to
recognize the truth in an indirect, roundabout and unfinished form, and
they reject everything that is immature, still fermenting and unstable.
The well-nourished man has spent all his life in merry-making, with
everything provided, has done nothing himself and does not know how hard
every sort of work is, and so woe betide you if you jar upon his fat
feelings by any sort of roughness; he'll never forgive you for that, he
will always remember it and will gladly avenge it. The long and short of
it is, that my hero is neither more nor less than a gigantic, incredibly
swollen bag, full of sentences, fashionable phrases, and labels of all
sorts and kinds.

M. M., however, had a speciality and was a very remarkable man; he was a
wit, good talker and story-teller, and there was always a circle round
him in every drawing-room. That evening he was particularly successful
in making an impression. He took possession of the conversation; he was
in his best form, gay, pleased at something, and he compelled the
attention of all; but Mme. M. looked all the time as though she were
ill; her face was so sad that I fancied every minute that tears would
begin quivering on her long eyelashes. All this, as I have said,
impressed me extremely and made me wonder. I went away with a feeling of
strange curiosity, and dreamed all night of M. M., though till then I
had rarely had dreams.

Next day, early in the morning, I was summoned to a rehearsal of some
tableaux vivants in which I had to take part. The tableaux vivants,
theatricals, and afterwards a dance were all fixed for the same evening,
five days later--the birthday of our host's younger daughter. To this
entertainment, which was almost improvised, another hundred guests were
invited from Moscow and from surrounding villas, so that there was a
great deal of fuss, bustle and commotion. The rehearsal, or rather
review of the costumes, was fixed so early in the morning because our
manager, a well-known artist, a friend of our host's, who had consented
through affection for him to undertake the arrangement of the tableaux
and the training of us for them, was in haste now to get to Moscow to
purchase properties and to make final preparations for the fête, as
there was no time to lose. I took part in one tableau with Mme. M. It
was a scene from mediæval life and was called "The Lady of the Castle
and Her Page."

I felt unutterably confused on meeting Mme. M. at the rehearsal. I kept
feeling that she would at once read in my eyes all the reflections, the
doubts, the surmises, that had arisen in my mind since the previous day.
I fancied, too, that I was, as it were, to blame in regard to her, for
having come upon her tears the day before and hindered her grieving, so
that she could hardly help looking at me askance, as an unpleasant
witness and unforgiven sharer of her secret. But, thank goodness, it
went off without any great trouble; I was simply not noticed. I think
she had no thoughts to spare for me or for the rehearsal; she was
absent-minded, sad and gloomily thoughtful; it was evident that she was
worried by some great anxiety. As soon as my part was over I ran away to
change my clothes, and ten minutes later came out on the verandah into
the garden. Almost at the same time Mme. M. came out by another door,
and immediately afterwards coming towards us appeared her self-satisfied
husband, who was returning from the garden, after just escorting into it
quite a crowd of ladies and there handing them over to a competent
_cavaliere servente_. The meeting of the husband and wife was evidently
unexpected. Mme. M., I don't know why, grew suddenly confused, and a
faint trace of vexation was betrayed in her impatient movement. The
husband, who had been carelessly whistling an air and with an air of
profundity stroking his whiskers, now, on meeting his wife, frowned and
scrutinized her, as I remember now, with a markedly inquisitorial stare.

"You are going into the garden?" he asked, noticing the parasol and book
in her hand.

"No, into the copse," she said, with a slight flush.

"Alone?"

"With him," said Mme. M., pointing to me. "I always go a walk alone in
the morning," she added, speaking in an uncertain, hesitating voice, as
people do when they tell their first lie.

"H'm ... and I have just taken the whole party there. They have all met
there together in the flower arbour to see N. off. He is going away, you
know.... Something has gone wrong in Odessa. Your cousin" (he meant the
fair beauty) "is laughing and crying at the same time; there is no
making her out. She says, though, that you are angry with N. about
something and so wouldn't go and see him off. Nonsense, of course?"

"She's laughing," said Mme. M., coming down the verandah steps.

"So this is your daily _cavaliere servente_," added M. M., with a wry
smile, turning his lorgnette upon me.

"Page!" I cried, angered by the lorgnette and the jeer; and laughing
straight in his face I jumped down the three steps of the verandah at
one bound.

"A pleasant walk," muttered M. M., and went on his way.

Of course, I immediately joined Mme. M. as soon as she indicated me to
her husband, and looked as though she had invited me to do so an hour
before, and as though I had been accompanying her on her walks every
morning for the last month. But I could not make out why she was so
confused, so embarrassed, and what was in her mind when she brought
herself to have recourse to her little lie? Why had she not simply said
that she was going alone? I did not know how to look at her, but
overwhelmed with wonder I began by degrees very naïvely peeping into her
face; but just as an hour before at the rehearsal she did not notice
either my looks or my mute question. The same anxiety, only more intense
and more distinct, was apparent in her face, in her agitation, in her
walk. She was in haste, and walked more and more quickly and kept
looking uneasily down every avenue, down every path in the wood that led
in the direction of the garden. And I, too, was expecting something.
Suddenly there was the sound of horses' hoofs behind us. It was the
whole party of ladies and gentlemen on horseback escorting N., the
gentleman who was so suddenly deserting us.

Among the ladies was my fair tormentor, of whom M. M. had told us that
she was in tears. But characteristically she was laughing like a child,
and was galloping briskly on a splendid bay horse. On reaching us N.
took off his hat, but did not stop, nor say one word to Mme. M. Soon all
the cavalcade disappeared from our sight. I glanced at Mme. M. and
almost cried out in wonder; she was standing as white as a handkerchief
and big tears were gushing from her eyes. By chance our eyes met: Mme.
M. suddenly flushed and turned away for an instant, and a distinct look
of uneasiness and vexation flitted across her face. I was in the way,
worse even than last time, that was clearer than day, but how was I to
get away?

And, as though guessing my difficulty, Mme. M. opened the book which she
had in her hand, and colouring and evidently trying not to look at me
she said, as though she had only suddenly realized it--

"Ah! It is the second part. I've made a mistake; please bring me the
first."

I could not but understand. My part was over, and I could not have been
more directly dismissed.

I ran off with her book and did not come back. The first part lay
undisturbed on the table that morning....

But I was not myself; in my heart there was a sort of haunting terror. I
did my utmost not to meet Mme. M. But I looked with wild curiosity at
the self-satisfied person of M. M., as though there must be something
special about him now. I don't understand what was the meaning of my
absurd curiosity. I only remember that I was strangely perplexed by all
that I had chanced to see that morning. But the day was only just
beginning and it was fruitful in events for me.

Dinner was very early that day. An expedition to a neighbouring hamlet
to see a village festival that was taking place there had been fixed for
the evening, and so it was necessary to be in time to get ready. I had
been dreaming for the last three days of this excursion, anticipating
all sorts of delights. Almost all the company gathered together on the
verandah for coffee. I cautiously followed the others and concealed
myself behind the third row of chairs. I was attracted by curiosity, and
yet I was very anxious not to be seen by Mme. M. But as luck would have
it I was not far from my fair tormentor. Something miraculous and
incredible was happening to her that day; she looked twice as handsome.
I don't know how and why this happens, but such miracles are by no means
rare with women. There was with us at this moment a new guest, a tall,
pale-faced young man, the official admirer of our fair beauty, who had
just arrived from Moscow as though on purpose to replace N., of whom
rumour said that he was desperately in love with the same lady. As for
the newly arrived guest, he had for a long time past been on the same
terms as Benedick with Beatrice, in Shakespeare's _Much Ado about
Nothing_. In short, the fair beauty was in her very best form that day.
Her chatter and her jests were so full of grace, so trustfully naïve, so
innocently careless, she was persuaded of the general enthusiasm with
such graceful self-confidence that she really was all the time the
centre of peculiar adoration. A throng of surprised and admiring
listeners was continually round her, and she had never been so
fascinating. Every word she uttered was marvellous and seductive, was
caught up and handed round in the circle, and not one word, one jest,
one sally was lost. I fancy no one had expected from her such taste,
such brilliance, such wit. Her best qualities were, as a rule, buried
under the most harum-scarum wilfulness, the most schoolboyish pranks,
almost verging on buffoonery; they were rarely noticed, and, when they
were, were hardly believed in, so that now her extraordinary brilliancy
was accompanied by an eager whisper of amazement among all. There was,
however, one peculiar and rather delicate circumstance, judging at least
by the part in it played by Mme. M.'s husband, which contributed to her
success. The madcap ventured--and I must add to the satisfaction of
almost every one or, at any rate, to the satisfaction of all the young
people--to make a furious attack upon him, owing to many causes,
probably of great consequence in her eyes. She carried on with him a
regular cross-fire of witticisms, of mocking and sarcastic sallies, of
that most illusive and treacherous kind that, smoothly wrapped up on the
surface, hit the mark without giving the victim anything to lay hold of,
and exhaust him in fruitless efforts to repel the attack, reducing him
to fury and comic despair.

I don't know for certain, but I fancy the whole proceeding was not
improvised but premeditated. This desperate duel had begun earlier, at
dinner. I call it desperate because M. M. was not quick to surrender. He
had to call upon all his presence of mind, all his sharp wit and rare
resourcefulness not to be completely covered with ignominy. The conflict
was accompanied by the continual and irrepressible laughter of all who
witnessed and took part in it. That day was for him very different from
the day before. It was noticeable that Mme. M. several times did her
utmost to stop her indiscreet friend, who was certainly trying to depict
the jealous husband in the most grotesque and absurd guise, in the guise
of "a bluebeard" it must be supposed, judging from all probabilities,
from what has remained in my memory and finally from the part which I
myself was destined to play in the affair.

I was drawn into it in a most absurd manner, quite unexpectedly. And as
ill-luck would have it at that moment I was standing where I could be
seen, suspecting no evil and actually forgetting the precautions I had
so long practised. Suddenly I was brought into the foreground as a sworn
foe and natural rival of M. M., as desperately in love with his wife, of
which my persecutress vowed and swore that she had proofs, saying that
only that morning she had seen in the copse....

But before she had time to finish I broke in at the most desperate
minute. That minute was so diabolically calculated, was so treacherously
prepared to lead up to its finale, its ludicrous _dénouement_, and was
brought out with such killing humour that a perfect outburst of
irrepressible mirth saluted this last sally. And though even at the time
I guessed that mine was not the most unpleasant part in the performance,
yet I was so confused, so irritated and alarmed that, full of misery and
despair, gasping with shame and tears, I dashed through two rows of
chairs, stepped forward, and addressing my tormentor, cried, in a voice
broken with tears and indignation:

"Aren't you ashamed ... aloud ... before all the ladies ... to tell such
a wicked ... lie?... Like a small child ... before all these men....
What will they say?... A big girl like you ... and married!..."

But I could not go on, there was a deafening roar of applause. My
outburst created a perfect furore. My naïve gesture, my tears, and
especially the fact that I seemed to be defending M. M., all this
provoked such fiendish laughter, that even now I cannot help laughing at
the mere recollection of it. I was overcome with confusion, senseless
with horror and, burning with shame, hiding my face in my hands rushed
away, knocked a tray out of the hands of a footman who was coming in at
the door, and flew upstairs to my own room. I pulled out the key, which
was on the outside of the door, and locked myself in. I did well, for
there was a hue and cry after me. Before a minute had passed my door was
besieged by a mob of the prettiest ladies. I heard their ringing
laughter, their incessant chatter, their trilling voices; they were all
twittering at once, like swallows. All of them, every one of them,
begged and besought me to open the door, if only for a moment; swore
that no harm should come to me, only that they wanted to smother me with
kisses. But ... what could be more horrible than this novel threat? I
simply burned with shame the other side of the door, hiding my face in
the pillows and did not open, did not even respond. The ladies kept up
their knocking for a long time, but I was deaf and obdurate as only a
boy of eleven could be.

But what could I do now? Everything was laid bare, everything had been
exposed, everything I had so jealously guarded and concealed!...
Everlasting disgrace and shame had fallen on me! But it is true that I
could not myself have said why I was frightened and what I wanted to
hide; yet I was frightened of something and had trembled like a leaf at
the thought of _that something's_ being discovered. Only till that
minute I had not known what it was: whether it was good or bad, splendid
or shameful, praiseworthy or reprehensible? Now in my distress, in the
misery that had been forced upon me, I learned that it was _absurd_ and
_shameful_. Instinctively I felt at the same time that this verdict was
false, inhuman, and coarse; but I was crushed, annihilated;
consciousness seemed checked in me and thrown into confusion; I could
not stand up against that verdict, nor criticize it properly. I was
befogged; I only felt that my heart had been inhumanly and shamelessly
wounded, and was brimming over with impotent tears. I was irritated; but
I was boiling with indignation and hate such as I had never felt before,
for it was the first time in my life that I had known real sorrow,
insult, and injury--and it was truly that, without any exaggeration. The
first untried, unformed feeling had been so coarsely handled in me, a
child. The first fragrant, virginal modesty had been so soon exposed and
insulted, and the first and perhaps very real and æsthetic impression
had been so outraged. Of course there was much my persecutors did not
know and did not divine in my sufferings. One circumstance, which I had
not succeeded in analysing till then, of which I had been as it were
afraid, partly entered into it. I went on lying on my bed in despair and
misery, hiding my face in my pillow, and I was alternately feverish and
shivery. I was tormented by two questions: first, what had the wretched
fair beauty seen, and, in fact, what could she have seen that morning in
the copse between Mme. M. and me? And secondly, how could I now look
Mme. M. in the face without dying on the spot of shame and despair?

An extraordinary noise in the yard roused me at last from the state of
semi-consciousness into which I had fallen. I got up and went to the
window. The whole yard was packed with carriages, saddle-horses, and
bustling servants. It seemed that they were all setting off; some of the
gentlemen had already mounted their horses, others were taking their
places in the carriages.... Then I remembered the expedition to the
village fête, and little by little an uneasiness came over me; I began
anxiously looking for my pony in the yard; but there was no pony there,
so they must have forgotten me. I could not restrain myself, and rushed
headlong downstairs, thinking no more of unpleasant meetings or my
recent ignominy....

Terrible news awaited me. There was neither a horse nor seat in any of
the carriages to spare for me; everything had been arranged, all the
seats were taken, and I was forced to give place to others. Overwhelmed
by this fresh blow, I stood on the steps and looked mournfully at the
long rows of coaches, carriages, and chaises, in which there was not the
tiniest corner left for me, and at the smartly dressed ladies, whose
horses were restlessly curvetting.

One of the gentlemen was late. They were only waiting for his arrival to
set off. His horse was standing at the door, champing the bit, pawing
the earth with his hoofs, and at every moment starting and rearing. Two
stable-boys were carefully holding him by the bridle, and every one else
apprehensively stood at a respectful distance from him.

A most vexatious circumstance had occurred, which prevented my going. In
addition to the fact that new visitors had arrived, filling up all the
seats, two of the horses had fallen ill, one of them being my pony. But
I was not the only person to suffer: it appeared that there was no horse
for our new visitor, the pale-faced young man of whom I have spoken
already. To get over this difficulty our host had been obliged to have
recourse to the extreme step of offering his fiery unbroken stallion,
adding, to satisfy his conscience, that it was impossible to ride him,
and that they had long intended to sell the beast for its vicious
character, if only a purchaser could be found.

But, in spite of his warning, the visitor declared that he was a good
horseman, and in any case ready to mount anything rather than not go.
Our host said no more, but now I fancied that a sly and ambiguous smile
was straying on his lips. He waited for the gentleman who had spoken so
well of his own horsemanship, and stood, without mounting his horse,
impatiently rubbing his hands and continually glancing towards the door;
some similar feeling seemed shared by the two stable-boys, who were
holding the stallion, almost breathless with pride at seeing themselves
before the whole company in charge of a horse which might any minute
kill a man for no reason whatever. Something akin to their master's sly
smile gleamed, too, in their eyes, which were round with expectation,
and fixed upon the door from which the bold visitor was to appear. The
horse himself, too, behaved as though he were in league with our host
and the stable-boys. He bore himself proudly and haughtily, as though he
felt that he were being watched by several dozen curious eyes and were
glorying in his evil reputation exactly as some incorrigible rogue might
glory in his criminal exploits. He seemed to be defying the bold man who
would venture to curb his independence.

That bold man did at last make his appearance. Conscience-stricken at
having kept every one waiting, hurriedly drawing on his gloves, he came
forward without looking at anything, ran down the steps, and only raised
his eyes as he stretched out his hand to seize the mane of the waiting
horse. But he was at once disconcerted by his frantic rearing and a
warning scream from the frightened spectators. The young man stepped
back and looked in perplexity at the vicious horse, which was quivering
all over, snorting with anger, and rolling his bloodshot eyes
ferociously, continually rearing on his hind legs and flinging up his
fore legs as though he meant to bolt into the air and carry the two
stable-boys with him. For a minute the young man stood completely
nonplussed; then, flushing slightly with some embarrassment, he raised
his eyes and looked at the frightened ladies.

"A very fine horse!" he said, as though to himself, "and to my thinking
it ought to be a great pleasure to ride him; but ... but do you know, I
think I won't go?" he concluded, turning to our host with the broad,
good-natured smile which so suited his kind and clever face.

"Yet I consider you are an excellent horseman, I assure you," answered
the owner of the unapproachable horse, delighted, and he warmly and even
gratefully pressed the young man's hand, "just because from the first
moment you saw the sort of brute you had to deal with," he added with
dignity. "Would you believe me, though I have served twenty-three years
in the hussars, yet I've had the pleasure of being laid on the ground
three times, thanks to that beast, that is, as often as I mounted the
useless animal. Tancred, my boy, there's no one here fit for you! Your
rider, it seems, must be some Ilya Muromets, and he must be sitting
quiet now in the village of Kapatcharovo, waiting for your teeth to fall
out. Come, take him away, he has frightened people enough. It was a
waste of time to bring him out," he cried, rubbing his hands
complacently.

It must be observed that Tancred was no sort of use to his master and
simply ate corn for nothing; moreover, the old hussar had lost his
reputation for a knowledge of horseflesh by paying a fabulous sum for
the worthless beast, which he had purchased only for his beauty ... yet
he was delighted now that Tancred had kept up his reputation, had
disposed of another rider, and so had drawn closer on himself fresh
senseless laurels.

"So you are not going?" cried the blonde beauty, who was particularly
anxious that her _cavaliere servente_ should be in attendance on this
occasion. "Surely you are not frightened?"

"Upon my word I am," answered the young man.

"Are you in earnest?"

"Why, do you want me to break my neck?"

"Then make haste and get on my horse; don't be afraid, it is very quiet.
We won't delay them, they can change the saddles in a minute! I'll try
to take yours. Surely Tancred can't always be so unruly."

No sooner said than done, the madcap leaped out of the saddle and was
standing before us as she finished the last sentence.

"You don't know Tancred, if you think he will allow your wretched
side-saddle to be put on him! Besides, I would not let you break your
neck, it would be a pity!" said our host, at that moment of inward
gratification affecting, as his habit was, a studied brusqueness and
even coarseness of speech which he thought in keeping with a jolly good
fellow and an old soldier, and which he imagined to be particularly
attractive to the ladies. This was one of his favourite fancies, his
favourite whim, with which we were all familiar.

"Well, cry-baby, wouldn't you like to have a try? You wanted so much to
go?" said the valiant horsewoman, noticing me and pointing tauntingly at
Tancred, because I had been so imprudent as to catch her eye, and she
would not let me go without a biting word, that she might not have
dismounted from her horse absolutely for nothing.

"I expect you are not such a---- We all know you are a hero and would be
ashamed to be afraid; especially when you will be looked at, you fine
page," she added, with a fleeting glance at Mme. M., whose carriage was
the nearest to the entrance.

A rush of hatred and vengeance had flooded my heart, when the fair
Amazon had approached us with the intention of mounting Tancred.... But
I cannot describe what I felt at this unexpected challenge from the
madcap. Everything was dark before my eyes when I saw her glance at Mme.
M. For an instant an idea flashed through my mind ... but it was only a
moment, less than a moment, like a flash of gunpowder; perhaps it was
the last straw, and I suddenly now was moved to rage as my spirit rose,
so that I longed to put all my enemies to utter confusion, and to
revenge myself on all of them and before everyone, by showing the sort
of person I was. Or whether by some miracle, some prompting from
mediæval history, of which I had known nothing till then, sent whirling
through my giddy brain, images of tournaments, paladins, heroes, lovely
ladies, the clash of swords, shouts and the applause of the crowd, and
amidst those shouts the timid cry of a frightened heart, which moves the
proud soul more sweetly than victory and fame--I don't know whether all
this romantic nonsense was in my head at the time, or whether, more
likely, only the first dawning of the inevitable nonsense that was in
store for me in the future, anyway, I felt that my hour had come. My
heart leaped and shuddered, and I don't remember how, at one bound, I
was down the steps and beside Tancred.

"You think I am afraid?" I cried, boldly and proudly, in such a fever
that I could hardly see, breathless with excitement, and flushing till
the tears scalded my cheeks. "Well, you shall see!" And clutching at
Tancred's mane I put my foot in the stirrup before they had time to make
a movement to stop me; but at that instant Tancred reared, jerked his
head, and with a mighty bound forward wrenched himself out of the hands
of the petrified stable-boys, and dashed off like a hurricane, while
every one cried out in horror.

Goodness knows how I got my other leg over the horse while it was in
full gallop; I can't imagine, either, how I did not lose hold of the
reins. Tancred bore me beyond the trellis gate, turned sharply to the
right and flew along beside the fence regardless of the road. Only at
that moment I heard behind me a shout from fifty voices, and that shout
was echoed in my swooning heart with such a feeling of pride and
pleasure that I shall never forget that mad moment of my boyhood. All
the blood rushed to my head, bewildering me and overpowering my fears. I
was beside myself. There certainly was, as I remember it now, something
of the knight-errant about the exploit.

My knightly exploits, however, were all over in an instant or it would
have gone badly with the knight. And, indeed, I do not know how I
escaped as it was. I did know how to ride, I had been taught. But my
pony was more like a sheep than a riding horse. No doubt I should have
been thrown off Tancred if he had had time to throw me, but after
galloping fifty paces he suddenly took fright at a huge stone which lay
across the road and bolted back. He turned sharply, galloping at full
speed, so that it is a puzzle to me even now that I was not sent
spinning out of the saddle and flying like a ball for twenty feet, that
I was not dashed to pieces, and that Tancred did not dislocate his leg
by such a sudden turn. He rushed back to the gate, tossing his head
furiously, bounding from side to side as though drunk with rage,
flinging his legs at random in the air, and at every leap trying to
shake me off his back as though a tiger had leaped on him and were
thrusting its teeth and claws into his back.

In another instant I should have flown off; I was falling; but several
gentlemen flew to my rescue. Two of them intercepted the way into the
open country, two others galloped up, closing in upon Tancred so that
their horses' sides almost crushed my legs, and both of them caught him
by the bridle. A few seconds later we were back at the steps.

They lifted me down from the horse, pale and scarcely breathing. I was
shaking like a blade of grass in the wind; it was the same with Tancred,
who was standing, his hoofs as it were thrust into the earth and his
whole body thrown back, puffing his fiery breath from red and streaming
nostrils, twitching and quivering all over, seeming overwhelmed with
wounded pride and anger at a child's being so bold with impunity. All
around me I heard cries of bewilderment, surprise, and alarm.

At that moment my straying eyes caught those of Mme. M., who looked pale
and agitated, and--I can never forget that moment--in one instant my
face was flooded with colour, glowed and burned like fire; I don't know
what happened to me, but confused and frightened by my own feelings I
timidly dropped my eyes to the ground. But my glance was noticed, it was
caught, it was stolen from me. All eyes turned on Mme. M., and finding
herself unawares the centre of attention, she, too, flushed like a child
from some naïve and involuntary feeling and made an unsuccessful effort
to cover her confusion by laughing....

All this, of course, was very absurd-looking from outside, but at that
moment an extremely naïve and unexpected circumstance saved me from
being laughed at by every one, and gave a special colour to the whole
adventure. The lovely persecutor who was the instigator of the whole
escapade, and who till then had been my irreconcileable foe, suddenly
rushed up to embrace and kiss me. She had hardly been able to believe
her eyes when she saw me dare to accept her challenge, and pick up the
gauntlet she had flung at me by glancing at Mme. M. She had almost died
of terror and self-reproach when I had flown off on Tancred; now, when
it was all over, and particularly when she caught the glance at Mme. M.,
my confusion and my sudden flush of colour, when the romantic strain in
her frivolous little head had given a new secret, unspoken significance
to the moment--she was moved to such enthusiasm over my "knightliness,"
that touched, joyful and proud of me, she rushed up and pressed me to
her bosom. She lifted the most naïve, stern-looking little face, on
which there quivered and gleamed two little crystal tears, and gazing at
the crowd that thronged about her said in a grave, earnest voice, such
as they had never heard her use before, pointing to me: "Mais c'est très
sérieux, messieurs, ne riez pas!" She did not notice that all were
standing, as though fascinated, admiring her bright enthusiasm. Her
swift, unexpected action, her earnest little face, the simple-hearted
naïveté, the unexpected feeling betrayed by the tears that welled in her
invariably laughter-loving eyes, were such a surprise that every one
stood before her as though electrified by her expression, her rapid,
fiery words and gestures. It seemed as though no one could take his eyes
off her for fear of missing that rare moment in her enthusiastic face.
Even our host flushed crimson as a tulip, and people declared that they
heard him confess afterwards that "to his shame" he had been in love for
a whole minute with his charming guest. Well, of course, after this I
was a knight, a hero.

"De Lorge! Toggenburg!" was heard in the crowd.

There was a sound of applause.

"Hurrah for the rising generation!" added the host.

"But he is coming with us, he certainly must come with us," said the
beauty; "we will find him a place, we must find him a place. He shall
sit beside me, on my knee ... but no, no! That's a mistake!..." she
corrected herself, laughing, unable to restrain her mirth at our first
encounter. But as she laughed she stroked my hand tenderly, doing all
she could to soften me, that I might not be offended.

"Of course, of course," several voices chimed in; "he must go, he has
won his place."

The matter was settled in a trice. The same old maid who had brought
about my acquaintance with the blonde beauty was at once besieged with
entreaties from all the younger people to remain at home and let me have
her seat. She was forced to consent, to her intense vexation, with a
smile and a stealthy hiss of anger. Her protectress, who was her usual
refuge, my former foe and new friend, called to her as she galloped off
on her spirited horse, laughing like a child, that she envied her and
would have been glad to stay at home herself, for it was just going to
rain and we should all get soaked.

And she was right in predicting rain. A regular downpour came on within
an hour and the expedition was done for. We had to take shelter for some
hours in the huts of the village, and had to return home between nine
and ten in the evening in the damp mist that followed the rain. I began
to be a little feverish. At the minute when I was starting, Mme. M. came
up to me and expressed surprise that my neck was uncovered and that I
had nothing on over my jacket. I answered that I had not had time to get
my coat. She took out a pin and pinned up the turned down collar of my
shirt, took off her own neck a crimson gauze kerchief, and put it round
my neck that I might not get a sore throat. She did this so hurriedly
that I had not time even to thank her.

But when we got home I found her in the little drawing-room with the
blonde beauty and the pale-faced young man who had gained glory for
horsemanship that day by refusing to ride Tancred. I went up to thank
her and give back the scarf. But now, after all my adventures, I felt
somehow ashamed. I wanted to make haste and get upstairs, there at my
leisure to reflect and consider. I was brimming over with impressions.
As I gave back the kerchief I blushed up to my ears, as usual.

"I bet he would like to keep the kerchief," said the young man laughing.
"One can see that he is sorry to part with your scarf."

"That's it, that's it!" the fair lady put in. "What a boy! Oh!" she
said, shaking her head with obvious vexation, but she stopped in time at
a grave glance from Mme. M., who did not want to carry the jest too far.

I made haste to get away.

"Well, you are a boy," said the madcap, overtaking me in the next room
and affectionately taking me by both hands, "why, you should have simply
not returned the kerchief if you wanted so much to have it. You should
have said you put it down somewhere, and that would have been the end of
it. What a simpleton! Couldn't even do that! What a funny boy!"

And she tapped me on the chin with her finger, laughing at my having
flushed as red as a poppy.

"I am your friend now, you know; am I not? Our enmity is over, isn't it?
Yes or no?"

I laughed and pressed her fingers without a word.

"Oh, why are you so ... why are you so pale and shivering? Have you
caught a chill?"

"Yes, I don't feel well."

"Ah, poor fellow! That's the result of over-excitement. Do you know
what? You had better go to bed without sitting up for supper, and you
will be all right in the morning. Come along."

She took me upstairs, and there was no end to the care she lavished on
me. Leaving me to undress she ran downstairs, got me some tea, and
brought it up herself when I was in bed. She brought me up a warm quilt
as well. I was much impressed and touched by all the care and attention
lavished on me; or perhaps I was affected by the whole day, the
expedition and feverishness. As I said good-night to her I hugged her
warmly, as though she were my dearest and nearest friend, and in my
exhausted state all the emotions of the day came back to me in a rush; I
almost shed tears as I nestled to her bosom. She noticed my overwrought
condition, and I believe my madcap herself was a little touched.

"You are a very good boy," she said, looking at me with gentle eyes,
"please don't be angry with me. You won't, will you?"

In fact, we became the warmest and truest of friends.

It was rather early when I woke up, but the sun was already flooding the
whole room with brilliant light. I jumped out of bed feeling perfectly
well and strong, as though I had had no fever the day before; indeed, I
felt now unutterably joyful. I recalled the previous day and felt that I
would have given any happiness if I could at that minute have embraced
my new friend, the fair-haired beauty, again, as I had the night before;
but it was very early and every one was still asleep. Hurriedly dressing
I went out into the garden and from there into the copse. I made my way
where the leaves were thickest, where the fragrance of the trees was
more resinous, and where the sun peeped in most gaily, rejoicing that it
could penetrate the dense darkness of the foliage. It was a lovely
morning.

Going on further and further, before I was aware of it I had reached the
further end of the copse and came out on the river Moskva. It flowed at
the bottom of the hill two hundred paces below. On the opposite bank of
the river they were mowing. I watched whole rows of sharp scythes gleam
all together in the sunlight at every swing of the mower and then vanish
again like little fiery snakes going into hiding; I watched the cut
grass flying on one side in dense rich swathes and being laid in long
straight lines. I don't know how long I spent in contemplation. At last
I was roused from my reverie by hearing a horse snorting and impatiently
pawing the ground twenty paces from me, in the track which ran from the
high road to the manor house. I don't know whether I heard this horse as
soon as the rider rode up and stopped there, or whether the sound had
long been in my ears without rousing me from my dreaming. Moved by
curiosity I went into the copse, and before I had gone many steps I
caught the sound of voices speaking rapidly, though in subdued tones. I
went up closer, carefully parting the branches of the bushes that edged
the path, and at once sprang back in amazement. I caught a glimpse of a
familiar white dress and a soft feminine voice resounded like music in
my heart. It was Mme. M. She was standing beside a man on horseback who,
stooping down from the saddle, was hurriedly talking to her, and to my
amazement I recognized him as N., the young man who had gone away the
morning before and over whose departure M. M. had been so busy. But
people had said at the time that he was going far away to somewhere in
the South of Russia, and so I was very much surprised at seeing him with
us again so early, and alone with Mme. M.

She was moved and agitated as I had never seen her before, and tears
were glistening on her cheeks. The young man was holding her hand and
stooping down to kiss it. I had come upon them at the moment of parting.
They seemed to be in haste. At last he took out of his pocket a sealed
envelope, gave it to Mme. M., put one arm round her, still not
dismounting, and gave her a long, fervent kiss. A minute later he lashed
his horse and flew past me like an arrow. Mme. M. looked after him for
some moments, then pensively and disconsolately turned homewards. But
after going a few steps along the track she seemed suddenly to recollect
herself, hurriedly parted the bushes and walked on through the copse.

I followed her, surprised and perplexed by all that I had seen. My heart
was beating violently, as though from terror. I was, as it were,
benumbed and befogged; my ideas were shattered and turned upside down;
but I remember I was, for some reason, very sad. I got glimpses from
time to time through the green foliage of her white dress before me: I
followed her mechanically, never losing sight of her, though I trembled
at the thought that she might notice me. At last she came out on the
little path that led to the house. After waiting half a minute I, too,
emerged from the bushes; but what was my amazement when I saw lying on
the red sand of the path a sealed packet, which I recognized, from the
first glance, as the one that had been given to Mme. M. ten minutes
before.

I picked it up. On both sides the paper was blank, there was no address
on it. The envelope was not large, but it was fat and heavy, as though
there were three or more sheets of notepaper in it.

What was the meaning of this envelope? No doubt it would explain the
whole mystery. Perhaps in it there was said all that N. had scarcely
hoped to express in their brief, hurried interview. He had not even
dismounted.... Whether he had been in haste or whether he had been
afraid of being false to himself at the hour of parting--God only
knows....

I stopped, without coming out on the path, threw the envelope in the
most conspicuous place on it, and kept my eyes upon it, supposing that
Mme. M. would notice the loss and come back and look for it. But after
waiting four minutes I could stand it no longer, I picked up my find
again, put it in my pocket, and set off to overtake Mme. M. I came upon
her in the big avenue in the garden. She was walking straight towards
the house with a swift and hurried step, though she was lost in thought,
and her eyes were on the ground. I did not know what to do. Go up to
her, give it her? That would be as good as saying that I knew
everything, that I had seen it all. I should betray myself at the first
word. And how should I look, at her? How would she look at me. I kept
expecting that she would discover her loss and return on her tracks.
Then I could, unnoticed, have flung the envelope on the path and she
would have found it. But no! We were approaching the house; she had
already been noticed....

As ill-luck would have it every one had got up very early that day,
because, after the unsuccessful expedition of the evening before, they
had arranged something new, of which I had heard nothing. All were
preparing to set off, and were having breakfast in the verandah. I
waited for ten minutes, that I might not be seen with Mme. M., and
making a circuit of the garden approached the house from the other side
a long time after her. She was walking up and down the verandah with her
arms folded, looking pale and agitated, and was obviously trying her
utmost to suppress the agonizing, despairing misery which could be
plainly discerned in her eyes, her walk, her every movement. Sometimes
she went down the verandah steps and walked a few paces among the
flower-beds in the direction of the garden; her eyes were impatiently,
greedily, even incautiously, seeking something on the sand of the path
and on the floor of the verandah. There could be no doubt she had
discovered her loss and imagined she had dropped the letter somewhere
here, near the house--yes, that must be so, she was convinced of it.

Some one noticed that she was pale and agitated, and others made the
same remark. She was besieged with questions about her health and
condolences. She had to laugh, to jest, to appear lively. From time to
time she looked at her husband, who was standing at the end of the
terrace talking to two ladies, and the poor woman was overcome by the
same shudder, the same embarrassment, as on the day of his first
arrival. Thrusting my hand into my pocket and holding the letter tight
in it, I stood at a little distance from them all, praying to fate that
Mme. M. should notice me. I longed to cheer her up, to relieve her
anxiety if only by a glance; to say a word to her on the sly. But when
she did chance to look at me I dropped my eyes.

I saw her distress and I was not mistaken. To this day I don't know her
secret. I know nothing but what I saw and what I have just described.
The intrigue was not such, perhaps, as one might suppose at the first
glance. Perhaps that kiss was the kiss of farewell, perhaps it was the
last slight reward for the sacrifice made to her peace and honour. N.
was going away, he was leaving her, perhaps for ever. Even that letter I
was holding in my hand--who can tell what it contained! How can one
judge? and who can condemn? And yet there is no doubt that the sudden
discovery of her secret would have been terrible--would have been a
fatal blow for her. I still remember her face at that minute, it could
not have shown more suffering. To feel, to know, to be convinced, to
expect, as though it were one's execution, that in a quarter of an hour,
in a minute perhaps, all might be discovered, the letter might be found
by some one, picked up; there was no address on it, it might be opened,
and then.... What then? What torture could be worse than what was
awaiting her? She moved about among those who would be her judges. In
another minute their smiling flattering faces would be menacing and
merciless. She would read mockery, malice and icy contempt on those
faces, and then her life would be plunged in everlasting darkness, with
no dawn to follow.... Yes, I did not understand it then as I understand
it now. I could only have vague suspicions and misgivings, and a
heart-ache at the thought of her danger, which I could not fully
understand. But whatever lay hidden in her secret, much was expiated, if
expiation were needed, by those moments of anguish of which I was
witness and which I shall never forget.

But then came a cheerful summons to set off; immediately every one was
bustling about gaily; laughter and lively chatter were heard on all
sides. Within two minutes the verandah was deserted. Mme. M. declined to
join the party, acknowledging at last that she was not well. But, thank
God, all the others set off, every one was in haste, and there was no
time to worry her with commiseration, inquiries, and advice. A few
remained at home. Her husband said a few words to her; she answered that
she would be all right directly, that he need not be uneasy, that there
was no occasion for her to lie down, that she would go into the garden,
alone ... with me ... here she glanced at me. Nothing could be more
fortunate! I flushed with pleasure, with delight; a minute later we were
on the way.

She walked along the same avenues and paths by which she had returned
from the copse, instinctively remembering the way she had come, gazing
before her with her eyes fixed on the ground, looking about intently
without answering me, possibly forgetting that I was walking beside her.

But when we had already reached the place where I had picked up the
letter, and the path ended, Mme. M. suddenly stopped, and in a voice
faint and weak with misery said that she felt worse, and that she would
go home. But when she reached the garden fence she stopped again and
thought a minute; a smile of despair came on her lips, and utterly worn
out and exhausted, resigned, and making up her mind to the worst, she
turned without a word and retraced her steps, even forgetting to tell me
of her intention.

My heart was torn with sympathy, and I did not know what to do.

We went, or rather I led her, to the place from which an hour before I
had heard the tramp of a horse and their conversation. Here, close to a
shady elm tree, was a seat hewn out of one huge stone, about which grew
ivy, wild jasmine, and dog-rose; the whole wood was dotted with little
bridges, arbours, grottoes, and similar surprises. Mme. M. sat down on
the bench and glanced unconsciously at the marvellous view that lay open
before us. A minute later she opened her book, and fixed her eyes upon
it without reading, without turning the pages, almost unconscious of
what she was doing. It was about half-past nine. The sun was already
high and was floating gloriously in the deep, dark blue sky, as though
melting away in its own light. The mowers were by now far away; they
were scarcely visible from our side of the river; endless ridges of mown
grass crept after them in unbroken succession, and from time to time the
faintly stirring breeze wafted their fragrance to us. The never ceasing
concert of those who "sow not, neither do they reap" and are free as the
air they cleave with their sportive wings was all about us. It seemed as
though at that moment every flower, every blade of grass was exhaling
the aroma of sacrifice, was saying to its Creator, "Father, I am blessed
and happy."

I glanced at the poor woman, who alone was like one dead amidst all this
joyous life; two big tears hung motionless on her lashes, wrung from her
heart by bitter grief. It was in my power to relieve and console this
poor, fainting heart, only I did not know how to approach the subject,
how to take the first step. I was in agonies. A hundred times I was on
the point of going up to her, but every time my face glowed like fire.

Suddenly a bright idea dawned upon me. I had found a way of doing it; I
revived.

"Would you like me to pick you a nosegay?" I said, in such a joyful
voice that Mme M. immediately raised her head and looked at me intently.

"Yes, do," she said at last in a weak voice, with a faint smile, at once
dropping her eyes on the book again.

"Or soon they will be mowing the grass here and there will be no
flowers," I cried, eagerly setting to work.

I had soon picked my nosegay, a poor, simple one, I should have been
ashamed to take it indoors; but how light my heart was as I picked the
flowers and tied them up! The dog-rose and the wild jasmine I picked
closer to the seat, I knew that not far off there was a field of rye,
not yet ripe. I ran there for cornflowers; I mixed them with tall ears
of rye, picking out the finest and most golden. Close by I came upon a
perfect nest of forget-me-nots, and my nosegay was almost complete.
Farther away in the meadow there were dark-blue campanulas and wild
pinks, and I ran down to the very edge of the river to get yellow
water-lilies. At last, making my way back, and going for an instant into
the wood to get some bright green fan-shaped leaves of the maple to put
round the nosegay, I happened to come across a whole family of pansies,
close to which, luckily for me, the fragrant scent of violets betrayed
the little flower hiding in the thick lush grass and still glistening
with drops of dew. The nosegay was complete. I bound it round with fine
long grass which twisted into a rope, and I carefully lay the letter in
the centre, hiding it with the flowers, but in such a way that it could
be very easily noticed if the slightest attention were bestowed upon my
nosegay.

I carried it to Mme. M.

On the way it seemed to me that the letter was lying too much in view: I
hid it a little more. As I got nearer I thrust it still further in the
flowers; and finally, when I was on the spot, I suddenly poked it so
deeply into the centre of the nosegay that it could not be noticed at
all from outside. My cheeks were positively flaming. I wanted to hide my
face in my hands and run away at once, but she glanced at my flowers as
though she had completely forgotten that I had gathered them.
Mechanically, almost without looking, she held out her hand and took my
present; but at once laid it on the seat as though I had handed it to
her for that purpose and dropped her eyes to her book again, seeming
lost in thought. I was ready to cry at this mischance. "If only my
nosegay were close to her," I thought; "if only she had not forgotten
it!" I lay down on the grass not far off, put my right arm under my
head, and closed my eyes as though I were overcome by drowsiness. But I
waited, keeping my eyes fixed on her.

Ten minutes passed, it seemed to me that she was getting paler and paler
... fortunately a blessed chance came to my aid.

This was a big, golden bee, brought by a kindly breeze, luckily for me.
It first buzzed over my head, and then flew up to Mme. M. She waved it
off once or twice, but the bee grew more and more persistent. At last
Mme. M. snatched up my nosegay and waved it before my face. At that
instant the letter dropped out from among the flowers and fell straight
upon the open book. I started. For some time Mme. M., mute with
amazement, stared first at the letter and then at the flowers which she
was holding in her hands, and she seemed unable to believe her eyes. All
at once she flushed, started, and glanced at me. But I caught her
movement and I shut my eyes tight, pretending to be asleep. Nothing
would have induced me to look her straight in the face at that moment.
My heart was throbbing and leaping like a bird in the grasp of some
village boy. I don't remember how long I lay with my eyes shut, two or
three minutes. At last I ventured to open them. Mme. M. was greedily
reading the letter, and from her glowing cheeks, her sparkling, tearful
eyes, her bright face, every feature of which was quivering with joyful
emotion, I guessed that there was happiness in the letter and all her
misery was dispersed like smoke. An agonizing, sweet feeling gnawed at
my heart, it was hard for me to go on pretending....

I shall never forget that minute!

Suddenly, a long way off, we heard voices--

"Mme. M.! Natalie! Natalie!"

Mme. M. did not answer, but she got up quickly from the seat, came up to
me and bent over me. I felt that she was looking straight into my face.
My eyelashes quivered, but I controlled myself and did not open my eyes.
I tried to breathe more evenly and quietly, but my heart smothered me
with its violent throbbing. Her burning breath scorched my cheeks; she
bent close down to my face as though trying to make sure. At last a kiss
and tears fell on my hand, the one which was lying on my breast.

"Natalie! Natalie! where are you," we heard again, this time quite
close.

"Coming," said Mme. M., in her mellow, silvery voice, which was so
choked and quivering with tears and so subdued that no one but I could
hear that, "Coming!"

But at that instant my heart at last betrayed me and seemed to send all
my blood rushing to my face. At that instant a swift, burning kiss
scalded my lips. I uttered a faint cry. I opened my eyes, but at once
the same gauze kerchief fell upon them, as though she meant to screen me
from the sun. An instant later she was gone. I heard nothing but the
sound of rapidly retreating steps. I was alone....

I pulled off her kerchief and kissed it, beside myself with rapture; for
some moments I was almost frantic.... Hardly able to breathe, leaning on
my elbow on the grass, I stared unconsciously before me at the
surrounding slopes, streaked with cornfields, at the river that flowed
twisting and winding far away, as far as the eye could see, between
fresh hills and villages that gleamed like dots all over the sunlit
distance--at the dark-blue, hardly visible forests, which seemed as
though smoking at the edge of the burning sky, and a sweet stillness
inspired by the triumphant peacefulness of the picture gradually brought
calm to my troubled heart. I felt more at ease and breathed more freely,
but my whole soul was full of a dumb, sweet yearning, as though a veil
had been drawn from my eyes as though at a foretaste of something. My
frightened heart, faintly quivering with expectation, was groping
timidly and joyfully towards some conjecture ... and all at once my
bosom heaved, began aching as though something had pierced it, and
tears, sweet tears, gushed from my eyes. I hid my face in my hands, and
quivering like a blade of grass, gave myself up to the first
consciousness and revelation of my heart, the first vague glimpse of my
nature. My childhood was over from that moment.

       *     *     *     *     *

When two hours later I returned home I did not find Mme. M. Through some
sudden chance she had gone back to Moscow with her husband. I never saw
her again.

MR. PROHARTCHIN

A STORY

In the darkest and humblest corner of Ustinya Fyodorovna's flat lived
Semyon Ivanovitch Prohartchin, a well-meaning elderly man, who did not
drink. Since Mr. Prohartchin was of a very humble grade in the service,
and received a salary strictly proportionate to his official capacity,
Ustinya Fyodorovna could not get more than five roubles a month from him
for his lodging. Some people said that she had her own reasons for
accepting him as a lodger; but, be that as it may, as though in despite
of all his detractors, Mr. Prohartchin actually became her favourite, in
an honourable and virtuous sense, of course. It must be observed that
Ustinya Fyodorovna, a very respectable woman, who had a special
partiality for meat and coffee, and found it difficult to keep the
fasts, let rooms to several other boarders who paid twice as much as
Semyon Ivanovitch, yet not being quiet lodgers, but on the contrary all
of them "spiteful scoffers" at her feminine ways and her forlorn
helplessness, stood very low in her good opinion, so that if it had not
been for the rent they paid, she would not have cared to let them stay,
nor indeed to see them in her flat at all. Semyon Ivanovitch had become
her favourite from the day when a retired, or, perhaps more correctly
speaking, discharged clerk, with a weakness for strong drink, was
carried to his last resting-place in Volkovo. Though this gentleman had
only one eye, having had the other knocked out owing, in his own words,
to his valiant behaviour; and only one leg, the other having been broken
in the same way owing to his valour; yet he had succeeded in winning all
the kindly feeling of which Ustinya Fyodorovna was capable, and took the
fullest advantage of it, and would probably have gone on for years
living as her devoted satellite and toady if he had not finally drunk
himself to death in the most pitiable way. All this had happened at
Peski, where Ustinya Fyodorovna only had three lodgers, of whom, when
she moved into a new flat and set up on a larger scale, letting to about
a dozen new boarders, Mr. Prohartchin was the only one who remained.

Whether Mr. Prohartchin had certain incorrigible defects, or whether his
companions were, every one of them, to blame, there seemed to be
misunderstandings on both sides from the first. We must observe here
that all Ustinya Fyodorovna's new lodgers without exception got on
together like brothers; some of them were in the same office; each one
of them by turns lost all his money to the others at faro, preference
and _bixe_; they all liked in a merry hour to enjoy what they called the
fizzing moments of life in a crowd together; they were fond, too, at
times of discussing lofty subjects, and though in the end things rarely
passed off without a dispute, yet as all prejudices were banished from
the whole party the general harmony was not in the least disturbed
thereby. The most remarkable among the lodgers were Mark Ivanovitch, an
intelligent and well-read man; then Oplevaniev; then Prepolovenko, also
a nice and modest person; then there was a certain Zinovy Prokofyevitch,
whose object in life was to get into aristocratic society; then there
was Okeanov, the copying clerk, who had in his time almost wrested the
distinction of prime favourite from Semyon Ivanovitch; then another
copying clerk called Sudbin; the plebeian Kantarev; there were others
too. But to all these people Semyon Ivanovitch was, as it were, not one
of themselves. No one wished him harm, of course, for all had from the
very first done Prohartchin justice, and had decided in Mark
Ivanovitch's words that he, Prohartchin, was a good and harmless fellow,
though by no means a man of the world, trustworthy, and not a flatterer,
who had, of course, his failings; but that if he were sometimes unhappy
it was due to nothing else but lack of imagination. What is more, Mr.
Prohartchin, though deprived in this way of imagination, could never
have made a particularly favourable impression from his figure or
manners (upon which scoffers are fond of fastening), yet his figure did
not put people against him. Mark Ivanovitch, who was an intelligent
person, formally undertook Semyon Ivanovitch's defence, and declared in
rather happy and flowery language that Prohartchin was an elderly and
respectable man, who had long, long ago passed the age of romance. And
so, if Semyon Ivanovitch did not know how to get on with people, it must
have been entirely his own fault.

The first thing they noticed was the unmistakable parsimony and
niggardliness of Semyon Ivanovitch. That was at once observed and noted,
for Semyon Ivanovitch would never lend any one his teapot, even for a
moment; and that was the more unjust as he himself hardly ever drank
tea, but when he wanted anything drank, as a rule, rather a pleasant
decoction of wild flowers and certain medicinal herbs, of which he
always had a considerable store. His meals, too, were quite different
from the other lodgers'. He never, for instance, permitted himself to
partake of the whole dinner, provided daily by Ustinya Fyodorovna for
the other boarders. The dinner cost half a rouble; Semyon Ivanovitch
paid only twenty-five kopecks in copper, and never exceeded it, and so
took either a plate of soup with pie, or a plate of beef; most
frequently he ate neither soup nor beef, but he partook in moderation of
white bread with onion, curd, salted cucumber, or something similar,
which was a great deal cheaper, and he would only go back to his half
rouble dinner when he could stand it no longer....

Here the biographer confesses that nothing would have induced him to
allude to such realistic and low details, positively shocking and
offensive to some lovers of the heroic style, if it were not that these
details exhibit one peculiarity, one characteristic, in the hero of this
story; for Mr. Prohartchin was by no means so poor as to be unable to
have regular and sufficient meals, though he sometimes made out that he
was. But he acted as he did regardless of obloquy and people's
prejudices, simply to satisfy his strange whims, and from frugality and
excessive carefulness: all this, however, will be much clearer later on.
But we will beware of boring the reader with the description of all
Semyon Ivanovitch's whims, and will omit, for instance, the curious and
very amusing description of his attire; and, in fact, if it were not for
Ustinya Fyodorovna's own reference to it we should hardly have alluded
even to the fact that Semyon Ivanovitch never could make up his mind to
send his linen to the wash, or if he ever did so it was so rarely that
in the intervals one might have completely forgotten the existence of
linen on Semyon Ivanovitch. From the landlady's evidence it appeared
that "Semyon Ivanovitch, bless his soul, poor lamb, for twenty years had
been tucked away in his corner, without caring what folks thought, for
all the days of his life on earth he was a stranger to socks,
handkerchiefs, and all such things," and what is more, Ustinya
Fyodorovna had seen with her own eyes, thanks to the decrepitude of the
screen, that the poor dear man sometimes had had nothing to cover his
bare skin.

Such were the rumours in circulation after Semyon Ivanovitch's death.
But in his lifetime (and this was one of the most frequent occasions of
dissension) he could not endure it if any one, even somebody on friendly
terms with him, poked his inquisitive nose uninvited into his corner,
even through an aperture in the decrepit screen. He was a taciturn man
difficult to deal with and prone to ill health. He did not like people
to give him advice, he did not care for people who put themselves
forward either, and if any one jeered at him or gave him advice unasked,
he would fall foul of him at once, put him to shame, and settle his
business. "You are a puppy, you are a featherhead, you are not one to
give advice, so there--you mind your own business, sir. You'd better
count the stitches in your own socks, sir, so there!"

Semyon Ivanovitch was a plain man, and never used the formal mode of
address to any one. He could not bear it either when some one who knew
his little ways would begin from pure sport pestering him with
questions, such as what he had in his little trunk.... Semyon Ivanovitch
had one little trunk. It stood under his bed, and was guarded like the
apple of his eye; and though every one knew that there was nothing in it
except old rags, two or three pairs of damaged boots and all sorts of
rubbish, yet Mr. Prohartchin prized his property very highly, and they
used even to hear him at one time express dissatisfaction with his old,
but still sound, lock, and talk of getting a new one of a special German
pattern with a secret spring and various complications. When on one
occasion Zinovy Prokofyevitch, carried away by the thoughtlessness of
youth, gave expression to the very coarse and unseemly idea, that Semyon
Ivanovitch was probably hiding and treasuring something in his box to
leave to his descendants, every one who happened to be by was stupefied
at the extraordinary effects of Zinovy Prokofyevitch's sally. At first
Mr. Prohartchin could not find suitable terms for such a crude and
coarse idea. For a long time words dropped from his lips quite
incoherently, and it was only after a while they made out that Semyon
Ivanovitch was reproaching Zinovy Prokofyevitch for some shabby action
in the remote past; then they realized that Semyon Ivanovitch was
predicting that Zinovy Prokofyevitch would never get into aristocratic
society, and that the tailor to whom he owed a bill for his suits would
beat him--would certainly beat him--because the puppy had not paid him
for so long; and finally, "You puppy, you," Semyon Ivanovitch added,
"here you want to get into the hussars, but you won't, I tell you,
you'll make a fool of yourself. And I tell you what, you puppy, when
your superiors know all about it they will take and make you a copying
clerk; so that will be the end of it! Do you hear, puppy?" Then Semyon
Ivanovitch subsided, but after lying down for five hours, to the intense
astonishment of every one he seemed to have reached a decision, and
began suddenly reproaching and abusing the young man again, at first to
himself and afterwards addressing Zinovy Prokofyevitch. But the matter
did not end there, and in the evening, when Mark Ivanovitch and
Prepolovenko made tea and asked Okeanov to drink it with them, Semyon
Ivanovitch got up from his bed, purposely joined them, subscribing his
fifteen or twenty kopecks, and on the pretext of a sudden desire for a
cup of tea began at great length going into the subject, and explaining
that he was a poor man, nothing but a poor man, and that a poor man like
him had nothing to save. Mr. Prohartchin confessed that he was a poor
man on this occasion, he said, simply because the subject had come up;
that the day before yesterday he had meant to borrow a rouble from that
impudent fellow, but now he should not borrow it for fear the puppy
should brag, that that was the fact of the matter, and that his salary
was such that one could not buy enough to eat, and that finally, a poor
man, as you see, he sent his sister-in-law in Tver five roubles every
month, that if he did not send his sister-in-law in Tver five roubles
every month his sister-in-law would die, and if his sister-in-law, who
was dependent on him, were dead, he, Semyon Ivanovitch, would long ago
have bought himself a new suit.... And Semyon Ivanovitch went on talking
in this way at great length about being a poor man, about his
sister-in-law and about roubles, and kept repeating the same thing over
and over again to impress it on his audience till he got into a regular
muddle and relapsed into silence. Only three days later, when they had
all forgotten about him, and no one was thinking of attacking him, he
added something in conclusion to the effect that when Zinovy
Prokofyevitch went into the hussars the impudent fellow would have his
leg cut off in the war, and then he would come with a wooden leg and
say; "Semyon Ivanovitch, kind friend, give me something to eat!" and
then Semyon Ivanovitch would not give him something to eat, and would
not look at the insolent fellow; and that's how it would be, and he
could just make the best of it.

All this naturally seemed very curious and at the same time fearfully
amusing. Without much reflection, all the lodgers joined together for
further investigation, and simply from curiosity determined to make a
final onslaught on Semyon Ivanovitch _en masse_. And as Mr. Prohartchin,
too, had of late--that is, ever since he had begun living in the same
flat with them--been very fond of finding out everything about them and
asking inquisitive questions, probably for private reasons of his own,
relations sprang up between the opposed parties without any preparation
or effort on either side, as it were by chance and of itself. To get
into relations Semyon Ivanovitch always had in reserve his peculiar,
rather sly, and very ingenuous manoeuvre, of which the reader has
learned something already. He would get off his bed about tea-time, and
if he saw the others gathered together in a group to make tea he would
go up to them like a quiet, sensible, and friendly person, hand over his
twenty kopecks, as he was entitled to do, and announce that he wished to
join them. Then the young men would wink at one another, and so
indicating that they were in league together against Semyon Ivanovitch,
would begin a conversation, at first strictly proper and decorous. Then
one of the wittier of the party would, _à propos_ of nothing, fall to
telling them news consisting most usually of entirely false and quite
incredible details. He would say, for instance, that some one had heard
His Excellency that day telling Demid Vassilyevitch that in his opinion
married clerks were more trustworthy than unmarried, and more suitable
for promotion; for they were steady, and that their capacities were
considerably improved by marriage, and that therefore he--that is, the
speaker--in order to improve and be better fitted for promotion, was
doing his utmost to enter the bonds of matrimony as soon as possible
with a certain Fevronya Prokofyevna. Or he would say that it had more
than once been remarked about certain of his colleagues that they were
entirely devoid of social graces and of well-bred, agreeable manners,
and consequently unable to please ladies in good society, and that,
therefore, to eradicate this defect it would be suitable to deduct
something from their salary, and with the sum so obtained, to hire a
hall, where they could learn to dance, acquire the outward signs of
gentlemanliness and good-breeding, courtesy, respect for their seniors,
strength of will, a good and grateful heart and various agreeable
qualities. Or he would say that it was being arranged that some of the
clerks, beginning with the most elderly, were to be put through an
examination in all sorts of subjects to raise their standard of culture,
and in that way, the speaker would add, all sorts of things would come
to light, and certain gentlemen would have to lay their cards on the
table--in short, thousands of similar very absurd rumours were
discussed. To keep it up, every one believed the story at once, showed
interest in it, asked questions, applied it to themselves; and some of
them, assuming a despondent air, began shaking their heads and asking
every one's advice, saying what were they to do if they were to come
under it? It need hardly be said that a man far less credulous and
simple-hearted than Mr. Prohartchin would have been puzzled and carried
away by a rumour so unanimously believed. Moreover, from all
appearances, it might be safely concluded that Semyon Ivanovitch was
exceedingly stupid and slow to grasp any new unusual idea, and that when
he heard anything new, he had always first, as it were, to chew it over
and digest it, to find out the meaning, and struggling with it in
bewilderment, at last perhaps to overcome it, though even then in a
quite special manner peculiar to himself alone....

In this way curious and hitherto unexpected qualities began to show
themselves in Semyon Ivanovitch.... Talk and tittle-tattle followed, and
by devious ways it all reached the office at last, with additions. What
increased the sensation was the fact that Mr. Prohartchin, who had
looked almost exactly the same from time immemorial, suddenly, _à
propos_ of nothing, wore quite a different countenance. His face was
uneasy, his eyes were timid and had a scared and rather suspicious
expression. He took to walking softly, starting and listening, and to
put the finishing touch to his new characteristics developed a passion
for investigating the truth. He carried his love of truth at last to
such a pitch as to venture, on two occasions, to inquire of Demid
Vassilyevitch himself concerning the credibility of the strange rumours
that reached him daily by dozens, and if we say nothing here of the
consequence of the action of Semyon Ivanovitch, it is for no other
reason but a sensitive regard for his reputation. It was in this way
people came to consider him as misanthropic and regardless of the
proprieties. Then they began to discover that there was a great deal
that was fantastical about him, and in this they were not altogether
mistaken, for it was observed on more than one occasion that Semyon
Ivanovitch completely forgot himself, and sitting in his seat with his
mouth open and his pen in the air, as though frozen or petrified, looked
more like the shadow of a rational being than that rational being
itself. It sometimes happened that some innocently gaping gentleman, on
suddenly catching his straying, lustreless, questioning eyes, was scared
and all of a tremor, and at once inserted into some important document
either a smudge or some quite inappropriate word. The impropriety of
Semyon Ivanovitch's behaviour embarrassed and annoyed all really
well-bred people.... At last no one could feel any doubt of the
eccentricity of Semyon Ivanovitch's mind, when one fine morning the
rumour was all over the office that Mr. Prohartchin had actually
frightened Demid Vassilyevitch himself, for, meeting him in the
corridor, Semyon Ivanovitch had been so strange and peculiar that he had
forced his superior to beat a retreat.... The news of Semyon
Ivanovitch's behaviour reached him himself at last. Hearing of it he got
up at once, made his way carefully between the chairs and tables,
reached the entry, took down his overcoat with his own hand, put it on,
went out, and disappeared for an indefinite period. Whether he was led
into this by alarm or some other impulse we cannot say, but no trace was
seen of him for a time either at home or at the office....

We will not attribute Semyon Ivanovitch's fate simply to his
eccentricity, yet we must observe to the reader that our hero was a very
retiring man, unaccustomed to society, and had, until he made the
acquaintance of the new lodgers, lived in complete unbroken solitude,
and had been marked by his quietness and even a certain mysteriousness;
for he had spent all the time that he lodged at Peski lying on his bed
behind the screen, without talking or having any sort of relations with
any one. Both his old fellow-lodgers lived exactly as he did: they, too
were, somehow mysterious people and spent fifteen years lying behind
their screens. The happy, drowsy hours and days trailed by, one after
the other, in patriarchal stagnation, and as everything around them went
its way in the same happy fashion, neither Semyon Ivanovitch nor Ustinya
Fyodorovna could remember exactly when fate had brought them together.

"It may be ten years, it may be twenty, it may be even twenty-five
altogether," she would say at times to her new lodgers, "since he
settled with me, poor dear man, bless his heart!" And so it was very
natural that the hero of our story, being so unaccustomed to society was
disagreeably surprised when, a year before, he, a respectable and modest
man, had found himself, suddenly in the midst of a noisy and boisterous
crew, consisting of a dozen young fellows, his colleagues at the office,
and his new house-mates.

The disappearance of Semyon Ivanovitch made no little stir in the
lodgings. One thing was that he was the favourite; another, that his
passport, which had been in the landlady's keeping, appeared to have
been accidentally mislaid. Ustinya Fyodorovna raised a howl, as was her
invariable habit on all critical occasions. She spent two days in
abusing and upbraiding the lodgers. She wailed that they had chased away
her lodger like a chicken, and all those spiteful scoffers had been the
ruin of him; and on the third day she sent them all out to hunt for the
fugitive and at all costs to bring him back, dead or alive. Towards
evening Sudbin first came back with the news that traces had been
discovered, that he had himself seen the runaway in Tolkutchy Market and
other places, had followed and stood close to him, but had not dared to
speak to him; he had been near him in a crowd watching a house on fire
in Crooked Lane. Half an hour later Okeanov and Kantarev came in and
confirmed Sudbin's story, word for word; they, too, had stood near, had
followed him quite close, had stood not more than ten paces from him,
but they also had not ventured to speak to him, but both observed that
Semyon Ivanovitch was walking with a drunken cadger. The other lodgers
were all back and together at last, and after listening attentively they
made up their minds that Prohartchin could not be far off and would not
be long in returning; but they said that they had all known beforehand
that he was about with a drunken cadger. This drunken cadger was a
thoroughly bad lot, insolent and cringing, and it seemed evident that he
had got round Semyon Ivanovitch in some way. He had turned up just a
week before Semyon Ivanovitch's disappearance in company with Remnev,
had spent a little time in the flat telling them that he had suffered in
the cause of justice, that he had formerly been in the service in the
provinces, that an inspector had come down on them, that he and his
associates had somehow suffered in a good cause, that he had come to
Petersburg and fallen at the feet of Porfiry Grigoryevitch, that he had
been got, by interest, into a department; but through the cruel
persecution of fate he had been discharged from there too, and that
afterwards through reorganization the office itself had ceased to exist,
and that he had not been included in the new revised staff of clerks
owing as much to direct incapacity for official work as to capacity for
something else quite irrelevant--all this mixed up with his passion for
justice and of course the trickery of his enemies. After finishing his
story, in the course of which Mr. Zimoveykin more than once kissed his
sullen and unshaven friend Remnev, he bowed down to all in the room in
turn, not forgetting Avdotya the servant, called them all his
benefactors, and explained that he was an undeserving, troublesome,
mean, insolent and stupid man, and that good people must not be hard on
his pitiful plight and simplicity. After begging for their kind
protection Mr. Zimoveykin showed his livelier side, grew very cheerful,
kissed Ustinya Fyodorovna's hands, in spite of her modest protests that
her hand was coarse and not like a lady's; and towards evening promised
to show the company his talent in a remarkable character dance. But next
day his visit ended in a lamentable _dénouement_. Either because there
had been too much character in the character-dance, or because he had,
in Ustinya Fyodorovna's own words, somehow "insulted her and treated her
as no lady, though she was on friendly terms with Yaroslav Ilyitch
himself, and if she liked might long ago have been an officer's wife,"
Zimoveykin had to steer for home next day. He went away, came back
again, was again turned out with ignominy, then wormed his way into
Semyon Ivanovitch's good graces, robbed him incidentally of his new
breeches, and now it appeared he had led Semyon Ivanovitch astray.

As soon as the landlady knew that Semyon Ivanovitch was alive and well,
and that there was no need to hunt for his passport, she promptly left
off grieving and was pacified. Meanwhile some of the lodgers determined
to give the runaway a triumphal reception; they broke the bolt and moved
away the screen from Mr. Prohartchin's bed, rumpled up the bed a little,
took the famous box, put it at the foot of the bed; and on the bed laid
the sister-in-law, that is, a dummy made up of an old kerchief, a cap
and a mantle of the landlady's, such an exact counterfeit of a
sister-in-law that it might have been mistaken for one. Having finished
their work they waited for Semyon Ivanovitch to return, meaning to tell
him that his sister-in-law had arrived from the country and was there
behind his screen, poor thing! But they waited and waited.

Already, while they waited, Mark Ivanovitch had staked and lost half a
month's salary to Prepolovenko and Kantarev; already Okeanov's nose had
grown red and swollen playing "flips on the nose" and "three cards;"
already Avdotya the servant had almost had her sleep out and had twice
been on the point of getting up to fetch the wood and light the stove,
and Zinovy Prokofyevitch, who kept running out every minute to see
whether Semyon Ivanovitch were coming, was wet to the skin; but there
was no sign of any one yet--neither Semyon Ivanovitch nor the drunken
cadger. At last every one went to bed, leaving the sister-in-law behind
the screen in readiness for any emergency; and it was not till four
o'clock that a knock was heard at the gate, but when it did come it was
so loud that it quite made up to the expectant lodgers for all the
wearisome trouble they had been through. It was he--he himself--Semyon
Ivanovitch, Mr. Prohartchin, but in such a condition that they all cried
out in dismay, and no one thought about the sister-in-law. The lost man
was unconscious. He was brought in, or more correctly carried in, by a
sopping and tattered night-cabman. To the landlady's question where the
poor dear man had got so groggy, the cabman answered: "Why, he is not
drunk and has not had a drop, that I can tell you, for sure; but
seemingly a faintness has come over him, or some sort of a fit, or maybe
he's been knocked down by a blow."

They began examining him, propping the culprit against the stove to do
so more conveniently, and saw that it really was not a case of
drunkenness, nor had he had a blow, but that something else was wrong,
for Semyon Ivanovitch could not utter a word, but seemed twitching in a
sort of convulsion, and only blinked, fixing his eyes in bewilderment
first on one and then on another of the spectators, who were all attired
in night array. Then they began questioning the cabman, asking where he
had got him from. "Why, from folks out Kolomna way," he answered. "Deuce
knows what they are, not exactly gentry, but merry, rollicking
gentlemen; so he was like this when they gave him to me; whether they
had been fighting, or whether he was in some sort of a fit, goodness
knows what it was; but they were nice, jolly gentlemen!"

Semyon Ivanovitch was taken, lifted high on the shoulders of two or
three sturdy fellows, and carried to his bed. When Semyon Ivanovitch on
being put in bed felt the sister-in-law, and put his feet on his sacred
box, he cried out at the top of his voice, squatted up almost on his
heels, and trembling and shaking all over, with his hands and his body
he cleared a space as far as he could in his bed, while gazing with a
tremulous but strangely resolute look at those present, he seemed as it
were to protest that he would sooner die than give up the hundredth part
of his poor belongings to any one....

Semyon Ivanovitch lay for two or three days closely barricaded by the
screen, and so cut off from all the world and all its vain anxieties.
Next morning, of course, every one had forgotten about him; time,
meanwhile, flew by as usual, hour followed hour and day followed day.
The sick man's heavy, feverish brain was plunged in something between
sleep and delirium; but he lay quietly and did not moan or complain; on
the contrary he kept still and silent and controlled himself, lying low
in his bed, just as the hare lies close to the earth when it hears the
hunter. At times a long depressing stillness prevailed in the flat, a
sign that the lodgers had all gone to the office, and Semyon Ivanovitch,
waking up, could relieve his depression by listening to the bustle in
the kitchen, where the landlady was busy close by; or to the regular
flop of Avdotya's down-trodden slippers as, sighing and moaning, she
cleared away, rubbed and polished, tidying all the rooms in the flat.
Whole hours passed by in that way, drowsy, languid, sleepy, wearisome,
like the water that dripped with a regular sound from the locker into
the basin in the kitchen. At last the lodgers would arrive, one by one
or in groups, and Semyon Ivanovitch could very conveniently hear them
abusing the weather, saying they were hungry, making a noise, smoking,
quarrelling, and making friends, playing cards, and clattering the cups
as they got ready for tea. Semyon Ivanovitch mechanically made an effort
to get up and join them, as he had a right to do at tea; but he at once
sank back into drowsiness, and dreamed that he had been sitting a long
time at the tea-table, having tea with them and talking, and that Zinovy
Prokofyevitch had already seized the opportunity to introduce into the
conversation some scheme concerning sisters-in-law and the moral
relation of various worthy people to them. At this point Semyon
Ivanovitch was in haste to defend himself and reply. But the mighty
formula that flew from every tongue--"It has more than once been
observed"--cut short all his objections, and Semyon Ivanovitch could do
nothing better than begin dreaming again that to-day was the first of
the month and that he was receiving money in his office.

Undoing the paper round it on the stairs, he looked about him quickly,
and made haste as fast as he could to subtract half of the lawful wages
he had received and conceal it in his boot. Then on the spot, on the
stairs, quite regardless of the fact that he was in bed and asleep, he
made up his mind when he reached home to give his landlady what was due
for board and lodging; then to buy certain necessities, and to show any
one it might concern, as it were casually and unintentionally, that some
of his salary had been deducted, that now he had nothing left to send
his sister-in-law; then to speak with commiseration of his
sister-in-law, to say a great deal about her the next day and the day
after, and ten days later to say something casually again about her
poverty, that his companions might not forget. Making this determination
he observed that Andrey Efimovitch, that everlastingly silent, bald
little man who sat in the office three rooms from where Semyon
Ivanovitch sat, and hadn't said a word to him for twenty years, was
standing on the stairs, that he, too, was counting his silver roubles,
and shaking his head, he said to him: "Money!" "If there's no money
there will be no porridge," he added grimly as he went down the stairs,
and just at the door he ended: "And I have seven children, sir." Then
the little bald man, probably equally unconscious that he was acting as
a phantom and not as a substantial reality, held up his hand about
thirty inches from the floor, and waving it vertically, muttered that
the eldest was going to school, then glancing with indignation at Semyon
Ivanovitch, as though it were Mr. Prohartchin's fault that he was the
father of seven, pulled his old hat down over his eyes, and with a whisk
of his overcoat he turned to the left and disappeared. Semyon Ivanovitch
was quite frightened, and though he was fully convinced of his own
innocence in regard to the unpleasant accumulation of seven under one
roof, yet it seemed to appear that in fact no one else was to blame but
Semyon Ivanovitch. Panic-stricken he set off running, for it seemed to
him that the bald gentleman had turned back, was running after him, and
meant to search him and take away all his salary, insisting upon the
indisputable number seven, and resolutely denying any possible claim of
any sort of sisters-in-law upon Semyon Ivanovitch. Prohartchin ran and
ran, gasping for breath.... Beside him was running, too, an immense
number of people, and all of them were jingling their money in the
tailpockets of their skimpy little dress-coats; at last every one ran
up, there was the noise of fire engines, and whole masses of people
carried him almost on their shoulders up to that same house on fire
which he had watched last time in company with the drunken cadger. The
drunken cadger--alias Mr. Zimoveykin--was there now, too, he met Semyon
Ivanovitch, made a fearful fuss, took him by the arm, and led him into
the thickest part of the crowd. Just as then in reality, all about them
was the noise and uproar of an immense crowd of people, flooding the
whole of Fontanka Embankment between the two bridges, as well as all the
surrounding streets and alleys; just as then, Semyon Ivanovitch, in
company with the drunken cadger, was carried along behind a fence, where
they were squeezed as though in pincers in a huge timber-yard full of
spectators who had gathered from the street, from Tolkutchy Market and
from all the surrounding houses, taverns, and restaurants. Semyon
Ivanovitch saw all this and felt as he had done at the time; in the
whirl of fever and delirium all sorts of strange figures began flitting
before him. He remembered some of them. One of them was a gentleman who
had impressed every one extremely, a man seven feet high, with whiskers
half a yard long, who had been standing behind Semyon Ivanovitch's back
during the fire, and had given him encouragement from behind, when our
hero had felt something like ecstasy and had stamped as though intending
thereby to applaud the gallant work of the firemen, from which he had an
excellent view from his elevated position. Another was the sturdy lad
from whom our hero had received a shove by way of a lift on to another
fence, when he had been disposed to climb over it, possibly to save some
one. He had a glimpse, too, of the figure of the old man with a sickly
face, in an old wadded dressing-gown, tied round the waist, who had made
his appearance before the fire in a little shop buying sugar and tobacco
for his lodger, and who now, with a milk-can and a quart pot in his
hands, made his way through the crowd to the house in which his wife and
daughter were burning together with thirteen and a half roubles in the
corner under the bed. But most distinct of all was the poor, sinful
woman of whom he had dreamed more than once during his illness--she
stood before him now as she had done then, in wretched bark shoes and
rags, with a crutch and a wicker-basket on her back. She was shouting
more loudly than the firemen or the crowd, waving her crutch and her
arms, saying that her own children had turned her out and that she had
lost two coppers in consequence. The children and the coppers, the
coppers and the children, were mingled together in an utterly
incomprehensible muddle, from which every one withdrew baffled, after
vain efforts to understand. But the woman would not desist, she kept
wailing, shouting, and waving her arms, seeming to pay no attention
either to the fire up to which she had been carried by the crowd from
the street or to the people about her, or to the misfortune of
strangers, or even to the sparks and red-hot embers which were beginning
to fall in showers on the crowd standing near. At last Mr. Prohartchin
felt that a feeling of terror was coming upon him; for he saw clearly
that all this was not, so to say, an accident, and that he would not get
off scot-free. And, indeed, upon the woodstack, close to him, was a
peasant, in a torn smock that hung loose about him, with his hair and
beard singed, and he began stirring up all the people against Semyon
Ivanovitch. The crowd pressed closer and closer, the peasant shouted,
and foaming at the mouth with horror, Mr. Prohartchin suddenly realized
that this peasant was a cabman whom he had cheated five years before in
the most inhuman way, slipping away from him without paying through a
side gate and jerking up his heels as he ran as though he were barefoot
on hot bricks. In despair Mr. Prohartchin tried to speak, to scream, but
his voice failed him. He felt that the infuriated crowd was twining
round him like a many-coloured snake, strangling him, crushing him. He
made an incredible effort and awoke. Then he saw that he was on fire,
that all his corner was on fire, that his screen was on fire, that the
whole flat was on fire, together with Ustinya Fyodorovna and all her
lodgers, that his bed was burning, his pillow, his quilt, his box, and
last of all, his precious mattress. Semyon Ivanovitch jumped up,
clutched at the mattress and ran dragging it after him. But in the
landlady's room into which, regardless of decorum, our hero ran just as
he was, barefoot and in his shirt, he was seized, held tight, and
triumphantly carried back behind the screen, which meanwhile was not on
fire--it seemed that it was rather Semyon Ivanovitch's head that was on
fire--and was put back to bed. It was just as some tattered, unshaven,
ill-humoured organ-grinder puts away in his travelling box the Punch who
has been making an upset, drubbing all the other puppets, selling his
soul to the devil, and who at last ends his existence, till the next
performance, in the same box with the devil, the negroes, the Pierrot,
and Mademoiselle Katerina with her fortunate lover, the captain.

Immediately every one, old and young, surrounded Semyon Ivanovitch,
standing in a row round his bed and fastening eyes full of expectation
on the invalid. Meantime he had come to himself, but from shame or some
other feeling, began pulling up the quilt over him, apparently wishing
to hide himself under it from the attention of his sympathetic friends.
At last Mark Ivanovitch was the first to break silence, and as a
sensible man he began saying in a very friendly way that Semyon
Ivanovitch must keep calm, that it was too bad and a shame to be ill,
that only little children behaved like that, that he must get well and
go to the office. Mark Ivanovitch ended by a little joke, saying that no
regular salary had yet been fixed for invalids, and as he knew for a
fact that their grade would be very low in the service, to his thinking
anyway, their calling or condition did not promise great and substantial
advantages. In fact, it was evident that they were all taking genuine
interest in Semyon Ivanovitch's fate and were very sympathetic. But with
incomprehensible rudeness, Semyon Ivanovitch persisted in lying in bed
in silence, and obstinately pulling the quilt higher and higher over his
head. Mark Ivanovitch, however, would not be gainsaid, and restraining
his feelings, said something very honeyed to Semyon Ivanovitch again,
knowing that that was how he ought to treat a sick man. But Semyon
Ivanovitch would not feel this: on the contrary he muttered something
between his teeth with the most distrustful air, and suddenly began
glancing askance from right to left in a hostile way, as though he would
have reduced his sympathetic friends to ashes with his eyes. It was no
use letting it stop there. Mark Ivanovitch lost patience, and seeing
that the man was offended and completely exasperated, and had simply
made up his mind to be obstinate, told him straight out, without any
softening suavity, that it was time to get up, that it was no use lying
there, that shouting day and night about houses on fire, sisters-in-law,
drunken cadgers, locks, boxes and goodness knows what, was all stupid,
improper, and degrading, for if Semyon Ivanovitch did not want to sleep
himself he should not hinder other people, and please would he bear it
in mind.

This speech produced its effects, for Semyon Ivanovitch, turning
promptly to the orator, articulated firmly, though in a hoarse voice,
"You hold your tongue, puppy! You idle speaker, you foul-mouthed man! Do
you hear, young dandy? Are you a prince, eh? Do you understand what I
say?"

Hearing such insults, Mark Ivanovitch fired up, but realizing that he
had to deal with a sick man, magnanimously overcame his resentment and
tried to shame him out of his humour, but was cut short in that too; for
Semyon Ivanovitch observed at once that he would not allow people to
play with him for all that Mark Ivanovitch wrote poetry. Then followed a
silence of two minutes; at last recovering from his amazement Mark
Ivanovitch, plainly, clearly, in well-chosen language, but with
firmness, declared that Semyon Ivanovitch ought to understand that he
was among gentlemen, and "you ought to understand, sir, how to behave
with gentlemen."

Mark Ivanovitch could on occasion speak effectively and liked to impress
his hearers, but, probably from the habit of years of silence, Semyon
Ivanovitch talked and acted somewhat abruptly; and, moreover, when he
did on occasion begin a long sentence, as he got further into it every
word seemed to lead to another word, that other word to a third word,
that third to a fourth and so on, so that his mouth seemed brimming
over; he began stuttering, and the crowding words took to flying out in
picturesque disorder. That was why Semyon Ivanovitch, who was a sensible
man, sometimes talked terrible nonsense. "You are lying," he said now.
"You booby, you loose fellow! You'll come to want--you'll go begging,
you seditious fellow, you--you loafer. Take that, you poet!"

"Why, you are still raving, aren't you, Semyon Ivanovitch?"

"I tell you what," answered Semyon Ivanovitch, "fools rave, drunkards
rave, dogs rave, but a wise man acts sensibly. I tell you, you don't
know your own business, you loafer, you educated gentleman, you learned
book! Here, you'll get on fire and not notice your head's burning off.
What do you think of that?"

"Why ... you mean.... How do you mean, burn my head off, Semyon
Ivanovitch?"

Mark Ivanovitch said no more, for every one saw clearly that Semyon
Ivanovitch was not yet in his sober senses, but delirious.

But the landlady could not resist remarking at this point that the house
in Crooked Lane had been burnt owing to a bald wench; that there was a
bald-headed wench living there, that she had lighted a candle and set
fire to the lumber room; but nothing would happen in her place, and
everything would be all right in the flats.

"But look here, Semyon Ivanovitch," cried Zinovy Prokofyevitch, losing
patience and interrupting the landlady, "you old fogey, you old crock,
you silly fellow--are they making jokes with you now about your
sister-in-law or examinations in dancing? Is that it? Is that what you
think?"

"Now, I tell you what," answered our hero, sitting up in bed and making
a last effort in a paroxysm of fury with his sympathetic friends. "Who's
the fool? You are the fool, a dog is a fool, you joking gentleman. But I
am not going to make jokes to please you, sir; do you hear, puppy? I am
not your servant, sir."

Semyon Ivanovitch would have said something more, but he fell back in
bed helpless. His sympathetic friends were left gaping in perplexity,
for they understood now what was wrong with Semyon Ivanovitch and did
not know how to begin. Suddenly the kitchen door creaked and opened, and
the drunken cadger--alias Mr. Zimoveykin--timidly thrust in his head,
cautiously sniffing round the place as his habit was. It seemed as
though he had been expected, every one waved to him at once to come
quickly, and Zimoveykin, highly delighted, with the utmost readiness and
haste jostled his way to Semyon Ivanovitch's bedside.

It was evident that Zimoveykin had spent the whole night in vigil and in
great exertions of some sort. The right side of his face was plastered
up; his swollen eyelids were wet from his running eyes, his coat and all
his clothes were torn, while the whole left side of his attire was
bespattered with something extremely nasty, possibly mud from a puddle.
Under his arm was somebody's violin, which he had been taking somewhere
to sell. Apparently they had not made a mistake in summoning him to
their assistance, for seeing the position of affairs, he addressed the
delinquent at once, and with the air of a man who knows what he is about
and feels that he has the upper hand, said: "What are you thinking
about? Get up, Senka. What are you doing, a clever chap like you? Be
sensible, or I shall pull you out of bed if you are obstreperous. Don't
be obstreperous!"

This brief but forcible speech surprised them all; still more were they
surprised when they noticed that Semyon Ivanovitch, hearing all this and
seeing this person before him, was so flustered and reduced to such
confusion and dismay that he could scarcely mutter through his teeth in
a whisper the inevitable protest.

"Go away, you wretch," he said. "You are a wretched creature--you are a
thief! Do you hear? Do you understand? You are a great swell, my fine
gentleman, you regular swell."

"No, my boy," Zimoveykin answered emphatically, retaining all his
presence of mind, "you're wrong there, you wise fellow, you regular
Prohartchin," Zimoveykin went on, parodying Semyon Ivanovitch and
looking round gleefully. "Don't be obstreperous! Behave yourself, Senka,
behave yourself, or I'll give you away, I'll tell them all about it, my
lad, do you understand?"

Apparently Semyon Ivanovitch did understand, for he started when he
heard the conclusion of the speech, and began looking rapidly about him
with an utterly desperate air.

Satisfied with the effect, Mr. Zimoveykin would have continued, but Mark
Ivanovitch checked his zeal, and waiting till Semyon Ivanovitch was
still and almost calm again began judiciously impressing on the uneasy
invalid at great length that, "to harbour ideas such as he now had in
his head was, first, useless, and secondly, not only useless, but
harmful; and, in fact, not so much harmful as positively immoral; and
the cause of it all was that Semyon Ivanovitch was not only a bad
example, but led them all into temptation."

Every one expected satisfactory results from this speech. Moreover by
now Semyon Ivanovitch was quite quiet and replied in measured terms. A
quiet discussion followed. They appealed to him in a friendly way,
inquiring what he was so frightened of. Semyon Ivanovitch answered, but
his answers were irrelevant. They answered him, he answered them. There
were one or two more observations on both sides and then every one
rushed into discussion, for suddenly such a strange and amazing subject
cropped up, that they did not know how to express themselves. The
argument at last led to impatience, impatience led to shouting, and
shouting even to tears; and Mark Ivanovitch went away at last foaming at
the mouth and declaring that he had never known such a blockhead.
Oplevaniev spat in disgust, Okeanov was frightened, Zinovy Prokofyevitch
became tearful, while Ustinya Fyodorovna positively howled, wailing that
her lodger was leaving them and had gone off his head, that he would
die, poor dear man, without a passport and without telling any one,
while she was a lone, lorn woman and that she would be dragged from
pillar to post. In fact, they all saw clearly at last that the seed they
had sown had yielded a hundred-fold, that the soil had been too
productive, and that in their company, Semyon Ivanovitch had succeeded
in overstraining his wits completely and in the most irrevocable manner.
Every one subsided into silence, for though they saw that Semyon
Ivanovitch was frightened, the sympathetic friends were frightened too.

"What?" cried Mark Ivanovitch; "but what are you afraid of? What have
you gone off your head about? Who's thinking about you, my good sir?
Have you the right to be afraid? Who are you? What are you? Nothing,
sir. A round nought, sir, that is what you are. What are you making a
fuss about? A woman has been run over in the street, so are you going to
be run over? Some drunkard did not take care of his pocket, but is that
any reason why your coat-tails should be cut off? A house is burnt down,
so your head is to be burnt off, is it? Is that it, sir, is that it?"

"You ... you ... you stupid!" muttered Semyon Ivanovitch, "if your nose
were cut off you would eat it up with a bit of bread and not notice it."

"I may be a dandy," shouted Mark Ivanovitch, not listening; "I may be a
regular dandy, but I have not to pass an examination to get married--to
learn dancing; the ground is firm under me, sir. Why, my good man,
haven't you room enough? Is the floor giving way under your feet, or
what?"

"Well, they won't ask you, will they? They'll shut one up and that will
be the end of it?"

"The end of it? That's what's up? What's your idea now, eh?"

"Why, they kicked out the drunken cadger."

"Yes; but you see that was a drunkard, and you are a man, and so am I."

"Yes, I am a man. It's there all right one day and then it's gone."

"Gone! But what do you mean by it?"

"Why, the office! The off--off--ice!"

"Yes, you blessed man, but of course the office is wanted and
necessary."

"It is wanted, I tell you; it's wanted to-day and it's wanted to-morrow,
but the day after to-morrow it will not be wanted. You have heard what
happened?"

"Why, but they'll pay you your salary for the year, you doubting Thomas,
you man of little faith. They'll put you into another job on account of
your age."

"Salary? But what if I have spent my salary, if thieves come and take my
money? And I have a sister-in-law, do you hear? A sister-in-law! You
battering-ram...."

"A sister-in-law! You are a man...."

"Yes, I am; I am a man. But you are a well-read gentleman and a fool, do
you hear?--you battering-ram--you regular battering-ram! That's what you
are! I am not talking about your jokes; but there are jobs such that all
of a sudden they are done away with. And Demid--do you hear?--Demid
Vassilyevitch says that the post will be done away with...."

"Ah, bless you, with your Demid! You sinner, why, you know...."

"In a twinkling of an eye you'll be left without a post, then you'll
just have to make the best of it."

"Why, you are simply raving, or clean off your head! Tell us plainly,
what have you done? Own up if you have done something wrong! It's no use
being ashamed! Are you off your head, my good man, eh?"

"He's off his head! He's gone off his head!" they all cried, and wrung
their hands in despair, while the landlady threw both her arms round
Mark Ivanovitch for fear he should tear Semyon Ivanovitch to pieces.

"You heathen, you heathenish soul, you wise man!" Zimoveykin besought
him. "Senka, you are not a man to take offence, you are a polite,
prepossessing man. You are simple, you are good ... do you hear? It all
comes from your goodness. Here I am a ruffian and a fool, I am a beggar;
but good people haven't abandoned me, no fear; you see they treat me
with respect, I thank them and the landlady. Here, you see, I bow down
to the ground to them; here, see, see, I am paying what is due to you,
landlady!" At this point Zimoveykin swung off with pedantic dignity a
low bow right down to the ground.

After that Semyon Ivanovitch would have gone on talking; but this time
they would not let him, they all intervened, began entreating him,
assuring him, comforting him, and succeeded in making Semyon Ivanovitch
thoroughly ashamed of himself, and at last, in a faint voice, he asked
leave to explain himself.

"Very well, then," he said, "I am prepossessing, I am quiet, I am good,
faithful and devoted; to the last drop of my blood you know ... do you
hear, you puppy, you swell? ... granted the job is going on, but you see
I am poor. And what if they take it? do you hear, you swell? Hold your
tongue and try to understand! They'll take it and that's all about it
... it's going on, brother, and then not going on ... do you understand?
And I shall go begging my bread, do you hear?"

"Senka," Zimoveykin bawled frantically, drowning the general hubbub with
his voice. "You are seditious! I'll inform against you! What are you
saying? Who are you? Are you a rebel, you sheep's head? A rowdy, stupid
man they would turn off without a character. But what are you?"

"Well, that's just it."

"What?"

"Well, there it is."

"How do you mean?"

"Why, I am free, he's free, and here one lies and thinks...."

"What?"

"What if they say I'm seditious?"

"Se--di--tious? Senka, you seditious!"

"Stay," cried Mr. Prohartchin, waving his hand and interrupting the
rising uproar, "that's not what I mean. Try to understand, only try to
understand, you sheep. I am law-abiding. I am law-abiding to-day, I am
law-abiding to-morrow, and then all of a sudden they kick me out and
call me seditious."

"What are you saying?" Mark Ivanovitch thundered at last, jumping up
from the chair on which he had sat down to rest, running up to the bed
and in a frenzy shaking with vexation and fury. "What do you mean? You
sheep! You've nothing to call your own. Why, are you the only person in
the world? Was the world made for you, do you suppose? Are you a
Napoleon? What are you? Who are you? Are you a Napoleon, eh? Tell me,
are you a Napoleon?"

But Mr. Prohartchin did not answer this question. Not because he was
overcome with shame at being a Napoleon, and was afraid of taking upon
himself such a responsibility--no, he was incapable of disputing
further, or saying anything.... His illness had reached a crisis. Tiny
teardrops gushed suddenly from his glittering, feverish, grey eyes. He
hid his burning head in his bony hands that were wasted by illness, sat
up in bed, and sobbing, began to say that he was quite poor, that he was
a simple, unlucky man, that he was foolish and unlearned, he begged kind
folks to forgive him, to take care of him, to protect him, to give him
food and drink, not to leave him in want, and goodness knows what else
Semyon Ivanovitch said. As he uttered this appeal he looked about him in
wild terror, as though he were expecting the ceiling to fall or the
floor to give way. Every one felt his heart soften and move to pity as
he looked at the poor fellow. The landlady, sobbing and wailing like a
peasant woman at her forlorn condition, laid the invalid back in bed
with her own hands. Mark Ivanovitch, seeing the uselessness of touching
upon the memory of Napoleon, instantly relapsed into kindliness and came
to her assistance. The others, in order to do something, suggested
raspberry tea, saying that it always did good at once and that the
invalid would like it very much; but Zimoveykin contradicted them all,
saying there was nothing better than a good dose of camomile or
something of the sort. As for Zinovy Prokofyevitch, having a good heart,
he sobbed and shed tears in his remorse, for having frightened Semyon
Ivanovitch with all sorts of absurdities, and gathering from the
invalid's last words that he was quite poor and needing assistance, he
proceeded to get up a subscription for him, confining it for a time to
the tenants of the flat. Every one was sighing and moaning, every one
felt sorry and grieved, and yet all wondered how it was a man could be
so completely panic-stricken. And what was he frightened about? It would
have been all very well if he had had a good post, had had a wife, a lot
of children; it would have been excusable if he were being hauled up
before the court on some charge or other; but he was a man utterly
insignificant, with nothing but a trunk and a German lock; he had been
lying more than twenty years behind his screen, saying nothing, knowing
nothing of the world nor of trouble, saving his half-pence, and now at a
frivolous, idle word the man had actually gone off his head, was utterly
panic-stricken at the thought he might have a hard time of it.... And it
never occurred to him that every one has a hard time of it! "If he would
only take that into consideration," Okeanov said afterwards, "that we
all have a hard time, then the man would have kept his head, would have
given up his antics and would have put up with things, one way or
another."

All day long nothing was talked of but Semyon Ivanovitch. They went up
to him, inquired after him, tried to comfort him; but by the evening he
was beyond that. The poor fellow began to be delirious, feverish. He
sank into unconsciousness, so that they almost thought of sending for a
doctor; the lodgers all agreed together and undertook to watch over
Semyon Ivanovitch and soothe him by turns through the night, and if
anything happened to wake all the rest immediately. With the object of
keeping awake, they sat down to cards, setting beside the invalid his
friend, the drunken cadger, who had spent the whole day in the flat and
had asked leave to stay the night. As the game was played on credit and
was not at all interesting they soon got bored. They gave up the game,
then got into an argument about something, then began to be loud and
noisy, finally dispersed to their various corners, went on for a long
time angrily shouting and wrangling, and as all of them felt suddenly
ill-humoured they no longer cared to sit up, so went to sleep. Soon it
was as still in the flat as in an empty cellar, and it was the more like
one because it was horribly cold. The last to fall asleep was Okeanov.
"And it was between sleeping and waking," as he said afterwards, "I
fancied just before morning two men kept talking close by me." Okeanov
said that he recognized Zimoveykin, and that Zimoveykin began waking his
old friend Remnev just beside him, that they talked for a long time in a
whisper; then Zimoveykin went away and could be heard trying to unlock
the door into the kitchen. The key, the landlady declared afterwards,
was lying under her pillow and was lost that night. Finally--Okeanov
testified--he had fancied he had heard them go behind the screen to the
invalid and light a candle there, "and I know nothing more," he said, "I
fell asleep, and woke up," as everybody else did, when every one in the
flat jumped out of bed at the sound behind the screen of a shriek that
would have roused the dead, and it seemed to many of them that a candle
went out at that moment. A great hubbub arose, every one's heart stood
still; they rushed pell-mell at the shriek, but at that moment there was
a scuffle, with shouting, swearing, and fighting. They struck a light
and saw that Zimoveykin and Remnev were fighting together, that they
were swearing and abusing one another, and as they turned the light on
them, one of them shouted: "It's not me, it's this ruffian," and the
other who was Zimoveykin, was shouting: "Don't touch me, I've done
nothing! I'll take my oath any minute!" Both of them looked hardly like
human beings; but for the first minute they had no attention to spare
for them; the invalid was not where he had been behind the screen. They
immediately parted the combatants and dragged them away, and saw that
Mr. Prohartchin was lying under the bed; he must, while completely
unconscious, have dragged the quilt and pillow after him so that there
was nothing left on the bedstead but the bare mattress, old and greasy
(he never had sheets). They pulled Semyon Ivanovitch out, stretched him
on the mattress, but soon realized that there was no need to make
trouble over him, that he was completely done for; his arms were stiff,
and he seemed all to pieces. They stood over him, he still faintly
shuddered and trembled all over, made an effort to do something with his
arms, could not utter a word, but blinked his eyes as they say heads do
when still warm and bleeding, after being just chopped off by the
executioner.

At last the body grew more and more still; the last faint convulsions
died away. Mr. Prohartchin had set off with his good deeds and his sins.
Whether Semyon Ivanovitch had been frightened by something, whether he
had had a dream, as Remnev maintained afterwards, or there had been some
other mischief--nobody knew; all that can be said is, that if the head
clerk had made his appearance at that moment in the flat and had
announced that Semyon Ivanovitch was dismissed for sedition,
insubordination, and drunkenness; if some old draggle-tailed beggar
woman had come in at the door, calling herself Semyon Ivanovitch's
sister-in-law; or if Semyon Ivanovitch had just received two hundred
roubles as a reward; or if the house had caught fire and Semyon
Ivanovitch's head had been really burning--he would in all probability
not have deigned to stir a finger in any of these eventualities. While
the first stupefaction was passing over, while all present were
regaining their powers of speech, were working themselves up into a
fever of excitement, shouting and flying to conjectures and
suppositions; while Ustinya Fyodorovna was pulling the box from under
his bed, was rummaging in a fluster under the mattress and even in
Semyon Ivanovitch's boots; while they cross-questioned Remnev and
Zimoveykin, Okeanov, who had hitherto been the quietest, humblest, and
least original of the lodgers, suddenly plucked up all his presence of
mind and displayed all his latent talents, by taking up his hat and
under cover of the general uproar slipping out of the flat. And just
when the horrors of disorder and anarchy had reached their height in the
agitated flat, till then so tranquil, the door opened and suddenly there
descended upon them, like snow upon their heads, a personage of
gentlemanly appearance, with a severe and displeased-looking face,
behind him Yaroslav Ilyitch, behind Yaroslav Ilyitch his subordinates
and the functionaries whose duty it is to be present on such occasions,
and behind them all, much embarrassed, Mr. Okeanov. The severe-looking
personage of gentlemanly appearance went straight up to Semyon
Ivanovitch, examined him, made a wry face, shrugged his shoulders and
announced what everybody knew, that is, that the dead man was dead, only
adding that the same thing had happened a day or two ago to a gentleman
of consequence, highly respected, who had died suddenly in his sleep.
Then the personage of gentlemanly, but displeased-looking, appearance
walked away saying that they had troubled him for nothing, and took
himself off. His place was at once filled (while Remnev and Zimoveykin
were handed over to the custody of the proper functionaries), by
Yaroslav Ilyitch, who questioned some one, adroitly took possession of
the box, which the landlady was already trying to open, put the boots
back in their proper place, observing that they were all in holes and no
use, asked for the pillow to be put back, called up Okeanov, asked for
the key of the box which was found in the pocket of the drunken cadger,
and solemnly, in the presence of the proper officials, unlocked Semyon
Ivanovitch's property. Everything was displayed: two rags, a pair of
socks, half a handkerchief, an old hat, several buttons, some old soles,
and the uppers of a pair of boots, that is, all sorts of odds and ends,
scraps, rubbish, trash, which had a stale smell. The only thing of any
value was the German lock. They called up Okeanov and cross-questioned
him sternly; but Okeanov was ready to take his oath. They asked for the
pillow, they examined it; it was extremely dirty, but in other respects
it was like all other pillows. They attacked the mattress, they were
about to lift it up, but stopped for a moment's consideration, when
suddenly and quite unexpectedly something heavy fell with a clink on the
floor. They bent down and saw on the floor a screw of paper and in the
screw some dozen roubles. "A-hey!" said Yaroslav Ilyitch, pointing to a
slit in the mattress from which hair and stuffing were sticking out.
They examined the slit and found that it had only just been made with a
knife and was half a yard in length; they thrust hands into the gap and
pulled out a kitchen knife, probably hurriedly thrust in there after
slitting the mattress. Before Yaroslav Ilyitch had time to pull the
knife out of the slit and to say "A-hey!" again, another screw of money
fell out, and after it, one at a time, two half roubles, a quarter
rouble, then some small change, and an old-fashioned, solid five-kopeck
piece--all this was seized upon. At this point it was realized that it
would not be amiss to cut up the whole mattress with scissors. They
asked for scissors.

Meanwhile, the guttering candle lighted up a scene that would have been
extremely curious to a spectator. About a dozen lodgers were grouped
round the bed in the most picturesque costumes, all unbrushed, unshaven,
unwashed, sleepy-looking, just as they had gone to bed. Some were quite
pale, while others had drops of sweat upon their brows: some were
shuddering, while others looked feverish. The landlady, utterly
stupefied, was standing quietly with her hands folded waiting for
Yaroslav Ilyitch's good pleasure. From the stove above, the heads of
Avdotya, the servant, and the landlady's favourite cat looked down with
frightened curiosity. The torn and broken screen lay cast on the floor,
the open box displayed its uninviting contents, the quilt and pillow lay
tossed at random, covered with fluff from the mattress, and on the
three-legged wooden table gleamed the steadily growing heap of silver
and other coins. Only Semyon Ivanovitch preserved his composure, lying
calmly on the bed and seeming to have no foreboding of his ruin. When
the scissors had been brought and Yaroslav Ilyitch's assistant, wishing
to be of service, shook the mattress rather impatiently to ease it from
under the back of its owner, Semyon Ivanovitch with his habitual
civility made room a little, rolling on his side with his back to the
searchers; then at a second shake he turned on his face, finally gave
way still further, and as the last slat in the bedstead was missing, he
suddenly and quite unexpectedly plunged head downward, leaving in view
only two bony, thin, blue legs, which stuck upwards like two branches of
a charred tree. As this was the second time that morning that Mr.
Prohartchin had poked his head under his bed it at once aroused
suspicion, and some of the lodgers, headed by Zinovy Prokofyevitch,
crept under it, with the intention of seeing whether there were
something hidden there too. But they knocked their heads together for
nothing, and as Yaroslav Ilyitch shouted to them, bidding them release
Semyon Ivanovitch at once from his unpleasant position, two of the more
sensible seized each a leg, dragged the unsuspected capitalist into the
light of day and laid him across the bed. Meanwhile the hair and flock
were flying about, the heap of silver grew--and, my goodness, what a lot
there was!... Noble silver roubles, stout solid rouble and a half
pieces, pretty half rouble coins, plebeian quarter roubles, twenty
kopeck pieces, even the unpromising old crone's small fry of ten and
five kopeck silver pieces--all done up in separate bits of paper in the
most methodical and systematic way; there were curiosities also, two
counters of some sort, one napoléon d'or, one very rare coin of some
unknown kind.... Some of the roubles were of the greatest antiquity,
they were rubbed and hacked coins of Elizabeth, German kreutzers, coins
of Peter, of Catherine; there were, for instance, old fifteen-kopeck
pieces, now very rare, pierced for wearing as earrings, all much worn,
yet with the requisite number of dots ... there was even copper, but all
of that was green and tarnished.... They found one red note, but no
more. At last, when the dissection was quite over and the mattress case
had been shaken more than once without a clink, they piled all the money
on the table and set to work to count it. At the first glance one might
well have been deceived and have estimated it at a million, it was such
an immense heap. But it was not a million, though it did turn out to be
a very considerable sum--exactly 2497 roubles and a half--so that if
Zinovy Prokofyevitch's subscription had been raised the day before there
would perhaps have been just 2500 roubles. They took the money, they put
a seal on the dead man's box, they listened to the landlady's
complaints, and informed her when and where she ought to lodge
information in regard to the dead man's little debt to her. A receipt
was taken from the proper person. At that point hints were dropped in
regard to the sister-in-law; but being persuaded that in a certain sense
the sister-in-law was a myth, that is, a product of the defective
imagination with which they had more than once reproached Semyon
Ivanovitch--they abandoned the idea as useless, mischievous and
disadvantageous to the good name of Mr. Prohartchin, and so the matter
ended.

When the first shock was over, when the lodgers had recovered themselves
and realized the sort of person their late companion had been, they all
subsided, relapsed into silence and began looking distrustfully at one
another. Some seemed to take Semyon Ivanovitch's behaviour very much to
heart, and even to feel affronted by it. What a fortune! So the man had
saved up like this! Not losing his composure, Mark Ivanovitch proceeded
to explain why Semyon Ivanovitch had been so suddenly panic-stricken;
but they did not listen to him. Zinovy Prokofyevitch was very
thoughtful, Okeanov had had a little to drink, the others seemed rather
crestfallen, while a little man called Kantarev, with a nose like a
sparrow's beak, left the flat that evening after very carefully packing
up and cording all his boxes and bags, and coldly explaining to the
curious that times were hard and that the terms here were beyond his
means. The landlady wailed without ceasing, lamenting for Semyon
Ivanovitch, and cursing him for having taken advantage of her lone, lorn
state. Mark Ivanovitch was asked why the dead man had not taken his
money to the bank. "He was too simple, my good soul, he hadn't enough
imagination," answered Mark Ivanovitch.

"Yes, and you have been too simple, too, my good woman," Okeanov put in.
"For twenty years the man kept himself close here in your flat, and here
he's been knocked down by a feather--while you went on cooking
cabbage-soup and had no time to notice it.... Ah-ah, my good woman!"

"Oh, the poor dear," the landlady went on, "what need of a bank! If he'd
brought me his pile and said to me: 'Take it, Ustinyushka, poor dear,
here is all I have, keep and board me in my helplessness, so long as I
am on earth,' then, by the holy ikon I would have fed him, I would have
given him drink, I would have looked after him. Ah, the sinner! ah, the
deceiver! He deceived me, he cheated me, a poor lone woman!"

They went up to the bed again. Semyon Ivanovitch was lying properly now,
dressed in his best, though, indeed, it was his only suit, hiding his
rigid chin behind a cravat which was tied rather awkwardly, washed,
brushed, but not quite shaven, because there was no razor in the flat;
the only one, which had belonged to Zinovy Prokofyevitch, had lost its
edge a year ago and had been very profitably sold at Tolkutchy Market;
the others used to go to the barber's.

They had not yet had time to clear up the disorder. The broken screen
lay as before, and exposing Semyon Ivanovitch's seclusion, seemed like
an emblem of the fact that death tears away the veil from all our
secrets, our shifty dodges and intrigues. The stuffing from the mattress
lay about in heaps. The whole room, suddenly so still, might well have
been compared by a poet to the ruined nest of a swallow, broken down and
torn to pieces by the storm, the nestlings and their mother killed, and
their warm little bed of fluff, feather and flock scattered about
them.... Semyon Ivanovitch, however, looked more like a conceited,
thievish old cock-sparrow. He kept quite quiet now, seemed to be lying
low, as though he were not guilty, as though he had had nothing to do
with the shameless, conscienceless, and unseemly duping and deception of
all these good people. He did not heed now the sobs and wailing of his
bereaved and wounded landlady. On the contrary, like a wary, callous
capitalist, anxious not to waste a minute in idleness even in the
coffin, he seemed to be wrapped up in some speculative calculation.
There was a look of deep reflection in his face, while his lips were
drawn together with a significant air, of which Semyon Ivanovitch during
his lifetime had not been suspected of being capable. He seemed, as it
were, to have grown shrewder, his right eye was, as it were, slyly
screwed up. Semyon Ivanovitch seemed wanting to say something, to make
some very important communication and explanation and without loss of
time, because things were complicated and there was not a minute to
lose.... And it seemed as though they could hear him.

"What is it? Give over, do you hear, you stupid woman? Don't whine! Go
to bed and sleep it off, my good woman, do you hear? I am dead; there's
no need of a fuss now. What's the use of it, really? It's nice to lie
here.... Though I don't mean that, do you hear? You are a fine lady, you
are a regular fine lady. Understand that; here I am dead now, but look
here, what if--that is, perhaps it can't be so--but I say what if I'm
not dead, what if I get up, do you hear? What would happen then?"

  PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY RICHARD CLAY & SONS, LIMITED,
  BRUNSWICK ST., STAMFORD ST., S.E. 1, AND BUNGAY, SUFFOLK

  NOVELS BY FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY

  Translated from the Russian by
  CONSTANCE GARNETT.

  THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV
  THE IDIOT
  THE POSSESSED
  CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
  THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD
  THE INSULTED AND INJURED
  A RAW YOUTH
  THE ETERNAL HUSBAND, etc.
  THE GAMBLER, etc.
  WHITE NIGHTS, etc.
  AN HONEST THIEF, etc. (_shortly_)
  THE FRIEND OF THE FAMILY (_in progress_)

  NOVELS BY IVAN TURGENEV

  Translated from the Russian by
  CONSTANCE GARNETT.

  RUDIN
  A HOUSE OF GENTLEFOLK
  ON THE EVE
  FATHERS AND CHILDREN
  SMOKE
  VIRGIN SOIL (2 vols.)
  A SPORTSMAN'S SKETCHES (2 vols.)
  DREAM TALES AND PROSE POEMS
  THE TORRENTS OF SPRING
  A LEAR OF THE STEPPES, etc.
  THE DIARY OF A SUPERFLUOUS MAN, etc.
  A DESPERATE CHARACTER, etc.
  THE JEW, etc.

  NEW YORK
  THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

Transcriber's Notes:

The list of novels translated by Constance Garnett was moved from front
of book to the end. Punctuation was standardized. Spaces were removed
from elipses when used to separate syllables within a word, e.g.,
sus...pic...ion. Archaic and non-standard spelling was retained, except
as noted below.

Changes to text:

  'grandchlid' to 'grandchild' ... I tell you this, grandchild, ...
  'terrestial' to 'terrestrial' ... whole terrestrial globe ...
  'consciouness' to 'consciousness' ... to your consciousness ...
  'gentlemen' to 'gentleman' ... I knew a gentleman who ...
  'extraordinary' to 'extraordinarily' ... everything will be
    extraordinarily rational ...
  'freewill' to 'free will' for consistency with remaining text
    ... without free will and without ...
    ... so-called free will ...
  'And' to 'Am' ... Am I a scoundrel?...
  'too' to 'to' ... Where will the poor fellow be off to?...
  'cried' to 'cries' ... I heard cries of bewilderment ...
  'intrgiue' to 'intrigue' ... The intrigue was not such ...

Additions to text:

  added missing 'to' ... if not to-day ...
  added missing 'a' ... It was a waste of time ...

================================================================================

_VIZETELLY’S RUSSIAN NOVELS._

                             Uncle’s Dream;

                                   AND

                         The Permanent Husband.

                        CELEBRATED RUSSIAN NOVELS

                         By FEDOR DOSTOIEFFSKY.

        _Translated from the original Russian by Fred. Whishaw._

    “There are three Russian novelists who, though, with one
    exception, little known out of their own country, stand head and
    shoulders above most of their contemporaries. In the opinion of
    some not indifferent critics, they are superior to all other
    novelists of this generation. Two of them, Dostoieffsky and
    Turgenieff, died not long ago; the third, Lyof Tolstoi, still
    lives. The one with the most marked individuality of character,
    probably the most highly gifted, was unquestionably
    Dostoieffsky.”—_Spectator._

         _In crown 8vo. containing nearly 500 pages, price 6s._

                               THE IDIOT.

    “Is unquestionably a work of great power and originality. M.
    Dostoieffsky crowds his canvas with living organisms, depicted
    with extreme vividness.”—_Scotsman._

                        _In crown 8vo, price 5s._

               THE FRIEND OF THE FAMILY; AND THE GAMBLER.

    “Dostoieffsky is one of the keenest observers of humanity amongst
    modern novelists. Both stories are very valuable as pictures of a
    society and a people with whom we are imperfectly acquainted, but
    who deserve the closest scrutiny.”—_Public Opinion._

   _Third edition. In crown 8vo, with Portrait and Memoir, price 5s._

                           INJURY AND INSULT.

    “That ‘Injury and Insult’ is a powerful novel few will deny. Vania
    is a marvellous character. Once read, the book can never be
    forgotten.”—_St. Stephen’s Review._

    “A masterpiece of fiction. The author has treated with consummate
    tact the difficult character of Natasha, ‘the incarnation of the
    slave of passion.’ She lives and breathes in these vivid pages,
    and the reader is drawn into the vortex of her anguish, and
    rejoices when she breaks free from her chain.”—_Morning Post._

           _Third edition. In crown 8vo, 450 pages, price 6s._

                          CRIME AND PUNISHMENT.

    “Dostoieffsky is one of the most remarkable of modern writers, and
    his book, ‘CRIME AND PUNISHMENT’ is one of the most moving of
    modern novels. It is the story of a murder and of the punishment
    which dogs the murderer; and its effect is unique in fiction. It
    is realism, but such realism as M. Zola and his followers do not
    dream of. The reader knows the personages—strange grotesque,
    terrible personages they are—more intimately than if he had been
    years with them in the flesh. He is constrained to live their
    lives, to suffer their tortures, to scheme and resist with them,
    exult with them, weep and laugh and despair with them; he breathes
    the very breath of their nostrils, and with the madness that comes
    upon them he is afflicted even as they. This sounds extravagant
    praise, no doubt; but only to those who have not read the volume.
    To those who have, we are sure that it will appear rather under
    the mark than otherwise.”—_The Athenæum._

                      _VIZETELLY’S RUSSIAN NOVELS._

                             Uncle’s Dream;

                                   AND

                         The Permanent Husband.

                         By FEDOR DOSTOIEFFSKY,

 AUTHOR OF “CRIME AND PUNISHMENT,” “INJURY AND INSULT,” “THE IDIOT,” “THE
                 FRIEND OF THE FAMILY; AND THE GAMBLER.”

            TRANSLATED FROM THE RUSSIAN BY FREDERICK WHISHAW.

                              [Illustration]
LONDON:

_VIZETELLY & CO., 16, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN._

1888.

CONTENTS

UNCLE’S DREAM.

CHAPTER I.
CHAPTER II.
CHAPTER III.
CHAPTER IV.
CHAPTER V.
CHAPTER VI.
CHAPTER VII.
CHAPTER VIII.
CHAPTER IX.
CHAPTER X.
CHAPTER XI.
CHAPTER XII.
CHAPTER XIII.
CHAPTER XIV.
CHAPTER XV.
Footnotes

THE PERMANENT HUSBAND

CHAPTER I.
CHAPTER II.
CHAPTER III.
CHAPTER IV.
CHAPTER V.
CHAPTER VI.
CHAPTER VII.
CHAPTER VIII.
CHAPTER IX.
CHAPTER X.
CHAPTER XI.
CHAPTER XII.
CHAPTER XIII.
CHAPTER XIV.
CHAPTER XV.
CHAPTER XVI.
CHAPTER XVII.

UNCLE’S DREAM.

CHAPTER I.

Maria Alexandrovna Moskaleva was the principal lady of Mordasoff—there was
no doubt whatever on that point! She always bore herself as though _she_
did not care a fig for anyone, but as though no one else could do without
_her_. True, there were uncommonly few who loved her—in fact I may say
that very many detested her; still, everyone was afraid of her, and that
was what she liked!

Now, why did Maria Alexandrovna, who dearly loves scandal, and cannot
sleep at night unless she has heard something new and piquant the day
before,—why, or how did she know how to bear herself so that it would
never strike anyone, looking at her, to suppose that the dignified lady
was the most inveterate scandal-monger in the world—or at all events in
Mordasoff? On the contrary, anyone would have said at once, that scandals
and such-like pettiness must vanish in her presence; and that
scandal-mongers, caught red-handed by Maria Alexandrovna, would blush and
tremble, like schoolboys at the entrance of the master; and that the talk
would immediately be diverted into channels of the loftiest and most
sublime subjects so soon as she entered the room. Maria Alexandrovna knew
many deadly and scandalous secrets of certain other Mordasoff inhabitants,
which, if she liked to reveal them at any convenient opportunity, would
produce results little less terrible than the earthquake of Lisbon. Still,
she was very quiet about the secrets she knew, and never let them out
except in cases of absolute need, and then only to her nearest and dearest
friends. She liked to hint that she knew certain things, and frighten
people out of their wits; preferring to keep them in a state of perpetual
terror, rather than crush them altogether.

This was real talent—the talent of tactics.

We all considered Maria Alexandrovna as our type and model of
irreproachable _comme-il-faut_! She had no rival in this respect in
Mordasoff! She could kill and annihilate and pulverize any rival with a
single word. We have seen her do it; and all the while she would look as
though she had not even observed that she had let the fatal word fall.

Everyone knows that this trait is a speciality of the highest circles.

Her circle of friends was large. Many visitors to Mordasoff left the town
again in an ecstasy over her reception of them, and carried on a
correspondence with her afterwards! Somebody even addressed some poetry to
her, which she showed about the place with great pride. The novelist who
came to the town used to read his novel to her of an evening, and ended by
dedicating it to her; which produced a very agreeable effect. A certain
German professor, who came from Carlsbad to inquire into the question of a
little worm with horns which abounds in our part of the world, and who
wrote and published four large quarto volumes about this same little
insect, was so delighted and ravished with her amiability and kindness
that to this very day he carries on a most improving correspondence upon
moral subjects from far Carlsbad!

Some people have compared Maria Alexandrovna, in certain respects, with
Napoleon. Of course it may have been her enemies who did so, in order to
bring Maria Alexandrovna to scorn; but all I can say is, How is it that
Napoleon, when he rose to his highest, that _too_ high estate of his,
became giddy and fell? Historians of the old school have ascribed this to
the fact that he was not only not of royal blood, but was not even a
gentleman! and therefore when he rose too high, he thought of his proper
place, the ground, became giddy and fell! But why did not Maria
Alexandrovna’s head whirl? And how was it that she could always keep her
place as the first lady of Mordasoff?

People have often said this sort of thing of Maria Alexandrovna; for
instance: “Oh—yes, but how would she act under such and such difficult
circumstances?” Yet, when the circumstances arose, Maria Alexandrovna
invariably rose also to the emergency! For instance, when her
husband—Afanassy Matveyevitch—was obliged to throw up his appointment, out
of pure incapacity and feebleness of intellect, just before the government
inspector came down to look into matters, all Mordasoff danced with
delight to think that she would be down on her knees to this inspector,
begging and beseeching and weeping and praying—in fact, that she would
drop her wings and fall; but, bless you, nothing of the sort happened!
Maria Alexandrovna quite understood that her husband was beyond praying
for: he must retire. So she only rearranged her affairs a little, in such
a manner that she lost not a scrap of her influence in the place, and her
house still remained the acknowledged head of all Mordasoff Society!

The procurer’s wife, Anna Nicolaevna Antipova, the sworn foe of Maria
Alexandrovna, though a friend so far as could be judged outside, had
already blown the trumpet of victory over her rival! But when Society
found that Maria Alexandrovna was extremely difficult to put down, they
were obliged to conclude that the latter had struck her roots far deeper
than they had thought for.

As I have mentioned Afanassy Matveyevitch, Maria Alexandrovna’s husband, I
may as well add a few words about him in this place.

Firstly, then, he was a most presentable man, so far as exterior goes, and
a very high-principled person besides; but in critical moments he used to
lose his head and stand looking like a sheep which has come across a new
gate. He looked very majestic and dignified in his dress-coat and white
tie at dinner parties, and so on; but his dignity only lasted until he
opened his mouth to speak; for then—well, you’d better have shut your
ears, ladies and gentlemen, when he began to talk—that’s all! Everyone
agreed that he was quite unworthy to be Maria Alexandrovna’s husband. He
only sat in his place by virtue of his wife’s genius. In my humble opinion
he ought long ago to have been derogated to the office of frightening
sparrows in the kitchen garden. There, and only there, would he have been
in his proper sphere, and doing some good to his fellow countrymen.

Therefore, I think Maria Alexandrovna did a very wise thing when she sent
him away to her village, about a couple of miles from town, where she
possessed a property of some hundred and twenty souls—which, to tell the
truth, was all she had to keep up the respectability and grandeur of her
noble house upon!

Everybody knew that Afanassy was only kept because he had earned a salary
and perquisites; so that when he ceased to earn the said salary and
perquisites, it surprised no-one to learn that he was sent away—“returned
empty” to the village, as useless and fit for nothing! In fact, everyone
praised his wife for her soundness of judgment and decision of character!

Afanassy lived in clover at the village. I called on him there once and
spent a very pleasant hour. He tied on his white ties, cleaned his boots
himself (not because he had no-one to do it for him, but for the sake of
art, for he loved to have them _shine_), went to the bath as often as he
could, had tea four times a day, and was as contented as possible.

Do you remember, a year and a half ago, the dreadful stories that were
afoot about Zenaida, Maria Alexandrovna’s and Afanassy’s daughter? Zenaida
was undoubtedly a fine, handsome, well-educated girl; but she was now
twenty-three years old, and not married yet. Among the reasons put forth
for Zenaida being still a maid, one of the strongest was those dark
rumours about a strange attachment, a year and a half ago, with the
schoolmaster of the place—rumours not hushed up even to this day. Yes, to
this very day they tell of a love-letter, written by Zina, as she was
called, and handed all about Mordasoff. But kindly tell me, who ever saw
this letter? If it went from hand to hand what became of it? Everyone
seems to have heard of it, but no one ever saw it! At all events, _I_ have
never met anyone who actually saw the letter with his own eyes. If you
drop a hint to Maria Alexandrovna about it, she simply does not understand
you.

Well, supposing that there _was_ something, and that Zina did write such a
letter; what dexterity and skill of Maria Alexandrovna, to have so ably
nipped the bud of the scandal! I feel sure that Zina _did_ write the
letter; but Maria Alexandrovna has managed so well that there is not a
trace, not a shred of evidence of the existence of it. Goodness knows how
she must have worked and planned to save the reputation of this only
daughter of hers; but she managed it somehow.

As for Zina not having married, there’s nothing surprising in that. Why,
what sort of a husband could be found for her in Mordasoff? Zina ought to
marry a reigning prince, if anyone! Did you ever see such a beauty among
beauties as Zina? I think not. Of course, she was very proud—too proud.

There was Mosgliakoff—some people said she was likely to end by marrying
_him_; but I never thought so. Why, what was there in Mosgliakoff? True,
he was young and good looking, and possessed an estate of a hundred and
fifty souls, and was a Petersburg swell; but, in the first place, I don’t
think there was much inside his head. He was such a funny, new-idea sort
of man. Besides, what is an estate of a hundred and fifty souls, according
to present notions? Oh, no; that’s a marriage that never could come off.

                  ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

There, kind reader, all you have just read was written by me some five
months ago, for my own amusement. I admit, I am rather partial to Maria
Alexandrovna; and I wished to write some sort of laudatory account of that
charming woman, and to mould it into the form of one of those playful
“letters to a friend,” purporting to have been written in the old golden
days (which will never return—thank Heaven!) to one of the periodicals of
the time, “The Northern Bee,” or some such paper. But since I have no
“friend,” and since I am, besides, naturally of a timid disposition, and
especially so as to my literary efforts, the essay remained on my
writing-table, as a memorial of my early literary attempts and in memory
of the peaceful occupation of a moment or two of leisure.

Well, five months have gone by, and lo! great things have happened at
Mordasoff!

Prince K—— drove into the town at an early hour one fine morning, and put
up at Maria Alexandrovna’s house! The prince only stayed three days, but
his visit proved pregnant with the most fatal consequences. I will say
more—the prince brought about what was, in a certain sense, a revolution
in the town, an account of which revolution will, of course, comprise some
of the most important events that have ever happened in Mordasoff; and I
have determined at last, after many heart-sinkings and flutterings, and
much doubt, to arrange the story into the orthodox literary form of a
novel, and present it to the indulgent Public! My tale will include a
narrative of the Rise and Greatness and Triumphant Fall of Maria
Alexandrovna, and of all her House in Mordasoff, a theme both worthy of,
and attractive to any writer!

Of course I must first explain why there should have been anything
extraordinary in the fact that Prince K—— came to Mordasoff, and put up at
Maria Alexandrovna’s mansion. And in order to do this, I must first be
allowed to say a few words about this same Prince K——. This I shall now
do. A short biography of the nobleman is absolutely necessary to the
further working out of my story. So, reader, you must excuse me.

CHAPTER II.

I will begin, then, by stating that Prince K—— was not so very, very old,
although, to look at him, you would think he _must_ fall to pieces every
moment, so decayed, or rather, worn-out was he. At Mordasoff all sorts of
strange things were told of him. Some declared that the old prince’s wits
had forsaken him. All agreed that it was passing strange that the owner of
a magnificent property of four thousand souls, a man of rank, and one who
could have, if he liked, a great influence, and play a great part in his
country’s affairs; that such a man should live all alone upon his estate,
and make an absolute hermit of himself, as did Prince K——. Many who had
known him a few years before insisted upon it that he was very far from
loving solitude then, and was as unlike a hermit as anyone could possibly
be.

However, here is all I have been able to learn authentically as to his
antecedents, etc.:—

Some time or other, in his younger days—which must have been a mighty long
while ago,—the prince made a most brilliant entry into life. He knocked
about and enjoyed himself, and sang romantic songs, and wrote epigrams,
and led a fast life generally, very often abroad, and was full of gifts
and intellectual capacity.

Of course he very soon ran through his means, and when old age approached,
he suddenly found himself almost penniless. Somebody recommended him to
betake himself to his country seat, which was about to be sold by public
auction. So off he went with that intention; but called in at Mordasoff,
and stopped there six months. He liked this provincial life, and while in
our town he spent every farthing he had left in the world, continuing his
reckless life as of old, galivanting about, and forming intimacies with
half the ladies of Mordasoff.

He was a kind-hearted, good sort of a man, but, of course, not without
certain princely failings, which, however, were accounted here to be
nothing but evidences of the highest breeding, and for this reason caused
a good effect instead of aversion. The ladies, especially, were in a state
of perpetual ecstasy over their dear guest. They cherished the fondest and
tenderest recollections of him. There were also strange traditions and
rumours about the prince. It was said that he spent more than half the day
at his toilet table; and that he was, in fact, made up of all sorts of
little bits. No one could say when or how he had managed to fall to pieces
so completely.

He wore a wig, whiskers, moustache, and even an “espagnole,” all false to
a hair, and of a lovely raven black; besides which he painted and rouged
every day. It was even said that he managed to do away with his wrinkles
by means of _hidden springs_—hidden somehow in his wig. It was said,
further, that he wore stays, in consequence of the want of a rib which he
had lost in Italy, through being caused to fly, involuntarily, out of a
window during a certain love affair. He limped with his left foot, and it
was whispered that the said foot was a cork one—a very scientific member,
made for him in place of the real one which came to grief during another
love affair, in Paris this time. But what will not people say? At all
events, I know for a fact that his right eye was a glass one; beautifully
made, I confess, but still—glass. His teeth were false too.

For whole days at a time he used to wash himself in all sorts of patent
waters and scents and pomades.

However, no one could deny that even then he was beginning to indulge in
senile drivel and chatter. It appeared his career was about over; he had
seen his best days, everyone knew that he had not a copeck left in the
world!

Then, suddenly and unexpectedly, an old relative of his—who had always
lived in Paris, but from whom he never had had the slightest hope of
inheritance—died, after having buried her legal heir exactly a month
before! The prince, to his utter astonishment, turned out to be the next
heir, and a beautiful property of four thousand serfs, just forty miles
from Mordasoff, became his—absolutely and unquestionably!

He immediately started off to Petersburg, to see to his affairs. Before he
departed, however, the ladies of our town gave him a magnificent
subscription banquet. They tell how bewitching and delightful the prince
was at this last dinner; how he punned and joked and told the most
_unusual_ stories; and how he promised to come to Donchanovo (his new
property) very soon, and gave his word that on his arrival he would give
endless balls and garden parties and picnics and fireworks and
entertainments of all kinds, for his friends here.

For a whole year after his departure, the ladies of the place talked of
nothing but these promised festivities; and awaited the arrival of the
“dear old man” with the utmost impatience. At last the prince arrived; but
to the disappointment and astonishment of everyone, he did not even call
in at Mordasoff on the way; and on his arrival at Donchanovo he shut
himself up there, as I have expressed it before, like a very hermit.

All sorts of fantastic rumours were bruited about, and from this time the
prince’s life and history became most secret, mysterious, and
incomprehensible.

In the first place, it was declared that the prince had not been very
successful in St. Petersburg; that many of his relations—future heirs and
heirs presumptive, and so on, had wished to put the Prince under some kind
of restraint, on the plea of “feebleness of intellect;” probably fearing
that he would run through this property as he had done with the last! And
more, some of them went so far as to suggest that he should be popped into
a lunatic asylum; and he was only saved by the interference of one of the
nearest of kin, who pointed out that the poor old prince was more than
half dead already, and that the rest of him must inevitably soon die too;
and that then the property would come down to them safely enough without
the need of the lunatic asylum. I repeat, what will not people say?
Especially at our place, Mordasoff! All this, it was said, had frightened
the prince dreadfully; so that his nature seemed to change entirely, and
he came down to live a hermit life at Donchanovo.

Some of our Mordasoff folk went over to welcome him on his arrival; but
they were either not received at all or received in the strangest fashion.
The prince did not recognise his old friends: many people explained that
he did not _wish_ to recognise them. Among other visitors to Donchanovo
was the Governor.

On the return of the latter from his visit, he declared that the prince
was undoubtedly a little “off his head.” The Governor always made a face
if anyone reminded him of this visit of his to Donchanovo. The ladies were
dreadfully offended.

At last an important fact was revealed: namely, that there was with the
prince, and apparently in authority over him, some unknown person of the
name of Stepanida Matveyevna, who had come down with him from St.
Petersburg; an elderly fat woman in a calico dress, who went about with
the house-keys in her hand; and that the prince obeyed this woman like a
little child, and did not dare take a step without her leave; that she
washed him and dressed him and soothed and petted him just like a nurse
with a baby; and lastly, that she kept all visitors away from him, even
relations—who, little by little, had begun to pervade the place rather too
frequently, for the purpose of seeing that all was right.

It was said that this person managed not only the prince, but his estate
too: she turned off bailiffs and clerks, she encashed the rents, she
looked after things in general—and did it well, too; so that the peasants
blessed their fate under her rule.

As for the prince, it was rumoured that he spent his days now almost
entirely at his toilet-table, trying on wigs and dress-coats, and that the
rest of his time was spent playing cards and games with Stepanida
Matveyevna, and riding on a quiet old English mare. On such occasions his
nurse always accompanied him in a covered droshky, because the prince
liked to ride out of bravado, but was most unsafe in his saddle.

He had been seen on foot too, in a long great coat and a straw hat with a
wide brim; a pink silk lady’s tie round his neck, and a basket on his arm
for mushrooms and flowers and berries, and so on, which he collected. The
nurse accompanied him, and a few yards behind walked a manservant, while a
carriage was in attendance on the high road at the side. When any peasant
happened to meet him, and with low bow, and hat in hand, said, “Good
morning, your highness—our beloved Sun, and Father of us all,” or some
such Russian greeting, he would stick his eye-glass in his eye, nod his
head and say, with great urbanity, and in French, “Bon jour, mon ami, bon
jour!”

Lots of other rumours there were—in fact, our folks could not forget that
the prince lived so near them.

What, then, must have been the general amazement when one fine day it was
trumpeted abroad that the prince—their curious old hermit-prince, had
arrived at Mordasoff, and put up at Maria Alexandrovna’s house!

Agitation and bewilderment were the order of the day; everybody waited for
explanations, and asked one another what could be the meaning of this
mystery? Some proposed to go and see for themselves; all agreed that it
was _most_ extraordinary. The ladies wrote notes to each other, came and
whispered to one another, and sent their maids and husbands to find out
more.

What was particularly strange was, why had the prince put up at Maria
Alexandrovna’s, and not somewhere else? This fact annoyed everyone; but,
most of all, Mrs. Antipova, who happened to be a distant relative of the
prince.

However, in order to clear up all these mysteries and find an answer to
all these questions, we must ourselves go and see Maria Alexandrovna. Will
you follow me in, kind reader? It is only ten in the morning, certainly,
as you point out; but I daresay she will receive such intimate friends,
all the same. Oh, yes; she’ll see us all right.

CHAPTER III.

It is ten o’clock in the morning, and we are at Maria Alexandrovna’s, and
in that room which the mistress calls her “salon” on great occasions; she
has a boudoir besides.

In this salon the walls are prettily papered, and the floor is nicely
painted; the furniture is mostly red; there is a fireplace, and on the
mantelpiece a bronze clock with some figure—a Cupid—upon it, in dreadfully
bad taste. There are large looking-glasses between the windows. Against
the back wall there stands a magnificent grand piano—Zina’s—for Zina is a
musician. On a table in the middle of the room hisses a silver tea-urn,
with a very pretty tea-set alongside of it.

There is a lady pouring out tea, a distant relative of the family, and
living with Maria Alexandrovna in that capacity, one Nastasia Petrovna
Ziablova. She is a widow of over thirty, a brunette with a fresh-looking
face and lively black eyes, not at all bad looking.

She is of a very animated disposition, laughs a great deal, is fond of
scandal, of course; and can manage her own little affairs very nicely. She
has two children somewhere, being educated. She would much like to marry
again. Her last husband was a military man.

Maria Alexandrovna herself is sitting at the fire in a very benign frame
of mind; she is dressed in a pale-green dress, which becomes her very
well; she is unspeakably delighted at the arrival of the Prince, who, at
this moment, is sitting upstairs, at his toilet table. She is so happy,
that she does not even attempt to conceal her joy. A young man is standing
before her and relating something in an animated way; one can see in his
eyes that he wishes to curry favour with his listener.

This young fellow is about twenty-five years old, and his manners are
decidedly good, though he has a silly way of going into raptures, and has,
besides, a good deal too much of the “funny man” about him. He is well
dressed and his hair is light; he is not a bad-looking fellow. But we have
already heard of this gentleman: he is Mr. Mosgliakoff. Maria Alexandrovna
considers him rather a stupid sort of a man, but receives him very well.
He is an aspirant for the hand of her daughter Zina, whom, according to
his own account, he loves to distraction. In his conversation, he refers
to Zina every other minute, and does his best to bring a smile to her lips
by his witty remarks; but the girl is evidently very cool and indifferent
with him. At this moment she is standing away at the side near the piano,
turning over the leaves of some book.

This girl is one of those women who create a sensation amounting almost to
amazement when they appear in society. She is lovely to an almost
impossible extent, a brunette with splendid black eyes, a grand figure and
divine bust. Her shoulders and arms are like an antique statue; her gait
that of an empress. She is a little pale to-day; but her lips, with the
gleam of her pearly teeth between them, are things to dream of, if you
once get a sight of them. Her expression is severe and serious.

Mr. Mosgliakoff is evidently afraid of her intent gaze; at all events, he
seems to cower before her when she looks at him. She is very simply
dressed, in a white muslin frock—the white suits her admirably. But then,
_everything_ suits her! On her finger is a hair ring: it does not look as
though the hair was her mother’s, from the colour. Mosgliakoff has never
dared to ask her whose hair it is. This morning she seems to be in a
peculiarly depressed humour; she appears to be very much preoccupied and
silent: but her mother is quite ready to talk enough for both; albeit she
glances continually at Zina, as though anxious for her, but timidly, too,
as if afraid of her.

“I am _so_ pleased, Pavel Alexandrovitch,” she chirps to Mosgliakoff;
“_so_ happy, that I feel inclined to cry the news out of the window to
every passer-by. Not to speak of the delightful surprise—to both Zina and
myself—of seeing you a whole fortnight sooner than we expected you—that,
of course, ‘goes without saying’; but I am so, _so_ pleased that you
should have brought this dear prince with you. You don’t know how I love
that fascinating old man. No, no! You would never believe it. You young
people don’t understand this sort of rapture; you never would believe me,
assure you as much as ever I pleased.

“Don’t you remember, Zina, how much he was to me at that time—six years
ago? Why, I was his guide, his sister, his mother! There was something
delightfully ingenuous and ennobling in our intimacy—one might say
_pastoral_; I don’t know what to call it—it was delightful. That is why
the poor dear prince thinks of _my_ house, and only mine, with gratitude,
now. Do you know, Pavel Alexandrovitch, perhaps you have _saved_ him by
thus bringing him to me? I have thought of him with quaking of heart all
these six years—you’d hardly believe it,—and _dreamed_ of him, too. They
say that wretch of a woman has bewitched and ruined him; but you’ve got
him out of the net at last. We must make the best of our opportunity now,
and save him outright. Do tell me again, how did you manage it? Describe
your meeting and all in detail; I only heard the chief point of the story
just now, and I do so like details. So, he’s still at his toilet table
now, is he?—”

“Yes. It was all just as I told you, Maria Alexandrovna!” begins
Mosgliakoff readily—delighted to repeat his story ten times over, if
required—“I had driven all night, and not slept a wink. You can imagine
what a hurry I was in to arrive here,” he adds, turning to Zina; “in a
word, I swore at the driver, yelled for fresh horses, kicked up a row at
every post station: my adventures would fill a volume. Well, exactly at
six o’clock in the morning I arrived at the last station, Igishova.
‘Horses, horses!’ I shouted, ‘let’s have fresh horses quick; I’m not going
to get out.’ I frightened the post-station man’s wife out of her wits; she
had a small baby in her arms, and I have an idea that its mother’s fright
will affect said baby’s supply of the needful. Well, the sunrise was
splendid—fine frosty morning—lovely! but I hadn’t time to look at
anything. I got my horses—I had to deprive some other traveller of his
pair; he was a professor, and we nearly fought a duel about it.

“They told me some prince had driven off a quarter of an hour ago. He had
slept here, and was driving his own horses; but I didn’t attend to
anything. Well, just seven miles from town, at a turn of the road, I saw
that some surprising event had happened. A huge travelling carriage was
lying on its side; the coachman and two flunkeys stood outside it,
apparently dazed, while from inside the carriage came heart-rending
lamentations and cries. I thought I’d pass by and let them all be—; it was
no affair of mine: but humanity insisted, and would not take a denial. (I
think it is Heine says that humanity shoves its nose in everywhere!) So I
stopped; and my driver and myself, with the other fellows, lifted the
carriage on to its legs again, or perhaps I should say wheels, as it had
no legs.

“I thought to myself, ‘This is that very prince they mentioned!’ So, I
looked in. Good Heavens! it was our prince! Here was a meeting, if you
like! I yelled at him, ‘Prince—uncle!’ Of course he hardly knew me at the
first glance, but he very soon recognised me. At least, I don’t believe he
knows who I am really, even _now_; I think he takes me for someone else,
not a relation. I saw him last seven years ago, as a boy; I remember
_him_, because he struck me so; but how was he to remember _me_? At all
events, I told him my name, and he embraced me ecstatically; and all the
while he himself was crying and trembling with fright. He really was
_crying_, I’ll take my oath he was! I saw it with my own eyes.

“Well, we talked a bit, and at last I persuaded him to get into my trap
with me, and call in at Mordasoff, if only for one day, to rest and
compose his feelings. He told me that Stepanida Matveyevna had had a
letter from Moscow, saying that her father, or daughter, or both, with all
her family, were dying; and that she had wavered for a long time, and at
last determined to go away for ten days. The prince sat out one day, and
then another, and then a third, measuring wigs, and powdering and pomading
himself; then he grew sick of it, and determined to go and see an old
friend, a priest called Misael, who lived at the Svetozersk Hermitage.
Some of the household, being afraid of the great Stepanida’s wrath,
opposed the prince’s proposed journey; but the latter insisted, and
started last night after dinner. He slept at Igishova, and went off this
morning again, at sunrise. Just at the turn going down to the Reverend Mr.
Misael’s, the carriage went over, and the prince was very nearly shot down
the ravine.”

“Then I step in and save the prince, and persuade him to come and pay a
visit to our mutual friend, Maria Alexandrovna (of whom the prince told me
that she is the most delightful and charming woman he has ever known). And
so here we are, and the prince is now upstairs attending to his wigs and
so on, with the help of his valet, whom he took along with him, and whom
he always would and will take with him wherever he goes; because he would
sooner die than appear before ladies without certain little secret touches
which require the valet’s hand. There you are, that’s the whole story.”

“Why, what a humourist he is, isn’t he, Zina?” said the lady of the house.
"How beautifully you told the story! Now, listen, Paul: one question;
explain to me clearly how you are related to the prince; you call him
uncle!"

“I really don’t know, Maria Alexandrovna; seventh, cousin I think, or
something of that sort. My aunt knows all about it; it was she who made me
go down to see him at Donchanova, when I got kicked out by Stepanida! I
simply call him ‘uncle,’ and he answers me; that’s about all our
relationship.”

“Well, I repeat, it was Providence that made you bring him straight to my
house as you did. I tremble to think of what might have happened to the
poor dear prince if somebody else, and not I, had got hold of him! Why,
they’d have torn him to pieces among them, and picked his bones! They’d
have pounced on him as on a new-found mine; they might easily have robbed
him; they are capable of it. You have no idea, Paul, of the depth of
meanness and greediness to which the people of this place have fallen!”

“But, my dear good Maria Alexandrovna—as if he would ever _think_ of
bringing him anywhere but to yourself,” said the widow, pouring out a cup
of tea; “you don’t suppose he would have taken the prince to Mrs.
Antipova’s, surely, do you?”

“Dear me, how very long he is coming out,” said Maria Alexandrovna,
impatiently rising from her chair; “it really is quite strange!”

“Strange! what, of uncle? Oh dear, no! he’ll probably be another five
hours or so putting himself together; besides, since he has no memory
whatever, he has very likely quite forgotten that he has come to your
house! Why, he’s a most extraordinary man, Maria Alexandrovna.”

“Oh don’t, don’t! Don’t talk like that!”

“Why not, Maria Alexandrovna? He is a lump of composition, not a man at
all! Remember, you haven’t seen him for six years, and I saw him half an
hour ago. He is half a corpse; he’s only the memory of a man; they’ve
forgotten to bury him! Why, his eye is made of glass, and his leg of cork,
and he goes on wires; he even talks on wires!”

Maria Alexandrovna’s face took a serious expression. “What nonsense you
talk,” she said; “and aren’t you ashamed of yourself, you, a young man and
a relation too—to talk like that of a most honourable old nobleman! not to
mention his incomparable personal goodness and kindness” (her voice here
trembled with emotion). “He is a relic, a chip, so to speak, of our old
aristocracy. I know, my dear young friend, that all this flightiness on
your part, proceeds from those ’new ideas’ of which you are so fond of
talking; but, goodness me, I’ve seen a good deal more of life than you
have: I’m a mother; and though I see the greatness and nobleness, if you
like, of these ‘new ideas,’ yet I can understand the practical side of
things too! Now, this gentleman is an old man, and that is quite enough to
render him ridiculous in your eyes. You, who talk of emancipating your
serfs, and ‘doing something for posterity,’ indeed! I tell you what it is,
it’s your Shakespeare! You stuff yourself full of Shakespeare, who has
long ago outlived his time, my dear Paul; and who, if he lived now, with
all his wisdom, would never make head or tail of our way of life!”

“If there be any chivalry left in our modern society, it is only in the
highest circles of the aristocracy. A prince is a prince either in a hovel
or in a palace! _You_ are more or less a representative of the highest
circles; your extraction is aristocratic. I, too, am not altogether a
stranger to the upper ten, and it’s a bad fledgling that fouls its own
nest! However, my dear Paul, you’ll forget your Shakespeare yet, and
you’ll understand all this much better than I can explain it. I foresee
it! Besides, I’m sure you are only joking; you did not mean what you said.
Stay here, dear Paul, will you? I’m just going upstairs to make inquiries
after the prince, he may want something.” And Maria Alexandrovna left the
room hurriedly.

“Maria Alexandrovna seems highly delighted that Mrs. Antipova, who thinks
so much of herself, did not get hold of the prince!” remarked the widow;
“Mrs. Antipova must be gnashing her teeth with annoyance just now! She’s a
relation, too, as I’ve been pointing out to Maria Alexandrovna.”

Observing that no one answered her, and casting her eyes on Zina and
Mosgliakoff, the widow suddenly recollected herself, and discreetly left
the room, as though to fetch something. However, she rewarded herself for
her discretion, by putting her ear to the keyhole, as soon as she had
closed the door after her.

Pavel Alexandrovitch immediately turned to Zina. He was in a state of
great agitation; his voice shook.

“Zenaida Afanassievna, are you angry with me?” he began, in a timid,
beseechful tone.

“With you? Why?” asked Zina, blushing a little, and raising her
magnificent eyes to his face.

“For coming earlier. I couldn’t help it; I couldn’t wait another
fortnight; I dreamed of you every night; so I flew off to learn my fate.
But you are frowning, you are angry;—oh; am I really not to hear anything
definite, even now?”

Zina distinctly and decidedly frowned.

“I supposed you would speak of this,” she said, with her eyes drooped
again, but with a firm and severe voice, in which some annoyance was
perceptible; “and as the expectation of it was very tedious, the sooner
you had your say, the better! You insist upon an answer again, do you?
Very well, I say _wait_, just as I said it before. I now repeat, as I did
then, that I have not as yet decided, and cannot therefore promise to be
your wife. You cannot force a girl to such a decision, Pavel
Alexandrovitch! However, to relieve your mind, I will add, that I do not
as yet refuse you absolutely; and pray observe that I give you thus much
hope of a favourable reply, merely out of forced deference to your
impatience and agitation; and that if I think fit afterwards to reject you
altogether, you are not to blame me for having given you false hopes. So
now you know.”

“Oh, but—but—what’s the use of that? What hope am I to get out of that,
Zina?” cried Mosgliakoff in piteous tones.

“Recollect what I have said, and draw whatever you please from the words;
that’s your business. I shall add nothing. I do not refuse you; I merely
say—wait! And I repeat, I reserve the free right of rejecting you
afterwards if I choose so to do. Just one more word: if you come here
before the fixed time relying on outside protection, or even on my
mother’s influence to help you gain your end, let me tell you, you make a
great mistake; if you worry me now, I shall refuse you outright. I hope we
understand each other now, and that I shall hear no more of this, until
the period I named to you for my decision.” All this was said quietly and
drily, and without a pause, as if learnt by rote. Paul felt foolish; but
just at this moment Maria Alexandrovna entered the room, and the widow
after her.

“I think he’s just coming, Zina! Nastasia Petrovna, make some new tea
quick, please!” The good lady was considerably agitated.

“Mrs. Antipova has sent her maid over to inquire about the prince already.
How angry she must be feeling just now,” remarked the widow, as she
commenced to pass over the tea-urn.

“And what’s that to me!” replied Maria Alexandrovna, over her shoulder.
“Just as though _I_ care what she thinks! _I_ shall not send a maid to her
kitchen to inquire, I assure you! And I am surprised, downright
_surprised_, that, not only you, but all the town, too, should suppose
that that wretched woman is my enemy! I appeal to you, Paul—you know us
both. Why should I be her enemy, now? Is it a question of precedence?
Pooh! I don’t care about precedence! She may be first, if she likes, and I
shall be readiest of all to go and congratulate her on the fact. Besides,
it’s all nonsense! Why, I take her part; I _must_ take her part. People
malign her; _why_ do you all fall upon her so? Because she’s young, and
likes to be smart; is that it? Dear me, I think finery is a good bit
better than some other failings—like Natalia Dimitrievna’s, for instance,
who has a taste for things that cannot be mentioned in polite society. Or
is it that Mrs. Antipova goes out too much, and never stays at home? My
goodness! why, the woman has never had any education; naturally she
doesn’t care to sit down to read, or anything of that sort. True, she
coquets and makes eyes at everybody who looks at her. But why do people
tell her that she’s pretty? especially as she only has a pale face, and
nothing else to boast of.

“She is amusing at a dance, I admit; but why do people tell her that she
dances the polka so well? She wears hideous hats and things; but it’s not
her fault that nature gave her no gift of good taste. She talks scandal;
but that’s the custom of the place—who doesn’t here? That fellow,
Sushikoff, with his whiskers, goes to see her pretty often while her
husband plays cards, but that _may_ be merely a trumped-up tale; at all
events I always say so, and take her part in every way! But, good heavens!
here’s the prince at last! ’Tis he, ’tis he! I recognise him! I should
know him out of a thousand! At last I see you! At last, my Prince!” cried
Maria Alexandrovna,—and she rushed to greet the prince as he entered the
room.

CHAPTER IV.

At first sight you would not take this prince for an old man at all, and
it is only when you come near and take a good look at him, that you see he
is merely a dead man working on wires. All the resources of science are
brought to bear upon this mummy, in order to give it the appearance of
life and youth. A marvellous wig, glorious whiskers, moustache and
napoleon—all of the most raven black—cover half his face. He is painted
and powdered with very great skill, so much so that one can hardly detect
any wrinkles. What has become of them, goodness only knows.

He is dressed in the pink of fashion, just as though he had walked
straight out of a tailor’s fashion-page. His coat, his gloves, tie, his
waistcoat, his linen, are all in perfect taste, and in the very last mode.
The prince limps slightly, but so slightly that one would suppose he did
it on purpose because _that_ was in fashion too. In his eye he wears a
glass—in the eye which is itself glass already.

He was soaked with scent. His speech and manner of pronouncing certain
syllables was full of affectation; and this was, perhaps, all that he
retained of the mannerisms and tricks of his younger days. For if the
prince had not quite lost his wits as yet, he had certainly parted with
nearly every vestige of his memory, which—alas!—is a thing which no amount
of perfumeries and wigs and rouge and tight-lacing will renovate. He
continually forgets words in the midst of conversation, and loses his way,
which makes it a matter of some difficulty to carry on a conversation with
him. However, Maria Alexandrovna has confidence in her inborn dexterity,
and at sight of the prince she flies into a condition of unspeakable
rapture.

“Oh! but you’ve not changed, you’ve not changed a _bit_!” she cries,
seizing her guest by both hands, and popping him into a comfortable
arm-chair. “Sit down, dear Prince, do sit down! Six years, prince, six
whole long years since we saw each other, and not a letter, not a little
tiny scrap of a note all the while. _Oh_, how naughty you have been,
prince! And _how_ angry I have been with you, my dear friend! But, tea!
tea! Good Heavens, Nastasia Petrovna, tea for the prince, quick!”

“Th—thanks, thanks; I’m very s—orry!” stammered the old man (I forgot to
mention that he stammered a little, but he did even this as though it were
the fashion to do it). “Very s—sorry; fancy, I—I wanted to co—come last
year, but they t—told me there was cho—cho—cholera here.”

“There was foot and mouth disease here, uncle,” put in Mosgliakoff, by way
of distinguishing himself. Maria Alexandrovna gave him a severe look.

“Ye—yes, foot and mouth disease, or something of that s—sort,” said the
prince; “so I st—stayed at home. Well, and how’s your h—husband, my dear
Anna Nic—Nicolaevna? Still at his proc—procuror’s work?”

“No, prince!” said Maria Alexandrovna, a little disconcerted. “My husband
is not a procurer.”

“I’ll bet anything that uncle has mixed you up with Anna Nicolaevna
Antipova,” said Mosgliakoff, but stopped suddenly on observing the look on
Maria Alexandrovna’s face.

“Ye—yes, of course, Anna Nicolaevna. A—An. What the deuce! I’m always
f—forgetting; Antipova, Antipova, of course,” continued the prince.

“No, prince, you have made a great mistake,” remarked Maria Alexandrovna,
with a bitter smile. “I am not Anna Nicolaevna at all, and I confess I
should never have believed that you would not recognise me. You have
astonished me, prince. I am your old friend, Maria Alexandrovna Moskaloff.
Don’t you remember Maria Alexandrovna?”

“M—Maria Alexandrovna! think of that; and I thought she was w—what’s her
name. Y—yes, Anna Vasilievna! _C’est délicieux._ W—why I thought you were
going to take me to this A—Anna Matveyevna. Dear me! _C’est ch—charmant!_
It often happens so w—with me. I get taken to the wrong house; but I’m
v—very pleased, v—very pleased! So you’re not Nastasia Va—silievna? How
interesting.”

“I’m Maria Alexandrovna, prince; _Maria Alexandrovna_! Oh! how naughty you
are, Prince, to forget your best, best friend!”

“Ye—es! ye—yes! best friend; best friend, for—forgive me!” stammered the
old man, staring at Zina.

“That’s my daughter Zina. You are not acquainted yet, prince. She wasn’t
here when you were last in the town, in the year —— you know.”

“Oh, th—this is your d—daughter!” muttered the old man, staring hungrily
at Zina through his glasses. “Dear me, dear me. _Ch—charmante,
ch—armante!_ But what a lo—ovely girl,” he added, evidently impressed.

“Tea! prince,” remarked Maria Alexandrovna, directing his attention to the
page standing before him with the tray. The prince took a cup, and
examined the boy, who had a nice fresh face of his own.

“Ah! this is your l—little boy? Wh—what a charming little b—boy! and does
he be—behave nicely?”

“But, prince,” interrupted Maria Alexandrovna, impatiently, “what is this
dreadful occurrence I hear of? I confess I was nearly beside myself with
terror when I heard of it. Were you not hurt at all? _Do_ take care. One
cannot make light of this sort of thing.”

“Upset, upset; the c—coachman upset me!” cried the prince, with unwonted
vivacity. “I thought it was the end of the world, and I was fri—frightened
out of my wits. I didn’t expect it; I didn’t, indeed! and my co—oachman is
to blame for it all. I trust you, my friend, to lo—ok into the matter
well. I feel sure he was making an attempt on my life!”

“All right, all right, uncle,” said Paul; “I’ll see about it. But look
here—forgive him, just this once, uncle; just this once, won’t you?”

“N—not I! Not for anything! I’m sure he wants my life, he and Lavrenty
too. It’s—it’s the ’new ideas;’ it’s Com—Communism, in the fullest sense
of the word. I daren’t meet them anywhere.”

“You are right, you are quite right, prince,” cried Maria Alexandrovna.
“You don’t know how I suffer myself from these wretched people. I’ve just
been obliged to change two of my servants; and you’ve no idea how _stupid_
they are, prince.”

“Ye—yes! quite so!” said the prince, delighted—as all old men are whose
senile chatter is listened to with servility. “But I like a fl—flunky to
look stupid; it gives them presence. There’s my Terenty, now. You remember
Terenty, my friend? Well, the f—first time I ever looked at him I said,
‘You shall be my ha—hall porter.’ He’s stupid, phen—phen—omenally stupid,
he looks like a she—sheep; but his dig—dignity and majesty are wonderful.
When I look at him he seems to be composing some l—learned dis—sertation.
He’s just like the German philosopher, Kant, or like some fa—fat old
turkey, and that’s just what one wants in a serving-man.”

Maria Alexandrovna laughed, and clapped her hands in the highest state of
ecstasy; Paul supported her with all his might; Nastasia Petrovna laughed
too; and even Zina smiled.

“But, prince, how clever, how witty, how _humorous_ you are!” cried Maria
Alexandrovna. “What a wonderful gilt of remarking the smallest refinements
of character. And for a man like you to eschew all society, and shut
yourself up for five years! With such talents! Why, prince, you could
_write_, you could be an author. You could emulate Von Vezin, Gribojedoff,
Gogol!”

“Ye—yes! ye—yes!” said the delighted prince. “I can reproduce things I
see, very well. And, do you know, I used to be a very wi—witty fellow
indeed, some time ago. I even wrote a play once. There were some very
smart couplets, I remember; but it was never acted.”

“Oh! how nice it would be to read it over, especially just _now_, eh,
Zina? for we are thinking of getting up a play, you must know, prince, for
the benefit of the ‘martyrs of the Fatherland,’ the wounded soldiers.
There, now, how handy your play would come in!”

“Certainly, certainly. I—I would even write you another. I think I’ve
quite forgotten the old one. I remember there were two or three such
epigrams that (here the prince kissed his own hand to convey an idea of
the exquisite wit of his lines) I recollect when I was abroad I made a
real furore. I remember Lord Byron well; we were great friends; you should
have seen him dance the mazurka one day during the Vienna Congress.”

“Lord Byron, uncle?—Surely not!”

“Ye—yes, Lord Byron. Perhaps it was not Lord Byron, though, perhaps it was
someone else; no, it wasn’t Lord Byron, it was some Pole; I remember now.
A won—der-ful fellow that Pole was! He said he was a C—Count, and he
turned out to be a c—cook—shop man! But he danced the mazurka
won—der—fully, and broke his leg at last. I recollect I wrote some lines
at the time:—

“Our little Pole
Danced like blazes.”

—How did it go on, now? Wait a minute! No, I can’t remember.”

“I’ll tell you, uncle. It must have been like this,” said Paul, becoming
more and more inspired:—

“But he tripped in a hole,
Which stopped his crazes.”

“Ye—yes, that was it, I think, or something very like it. I don’t know,
though—perhaps it wasn’t. Anyhow, the lines were very sm—art. I forget a
good deal of what I have seen and done. I’m so b—busy now!”

“But do let me hear how you have employed your time in your solitude, dear
prince,” said Maria Alexandrovna. “I must confess that I have thought of
you so often, and often, that I am burning with impatience to hear more
about you and your doings.”

“Employed my time? Oh, very busy; very busy, ge—generally. One rests, you
see, part of the day; and then I imagine a good many things.”

“I should think you have a very strong imagination, haven’t you, uncle?”
remarked Paul.

“Exceptionally so, my dear fellow. I sometimes imagine things which amaze
even myself! When I was at Kadueff,—by-the-by, you were vice-governor of
Kadueff, weren’t you?”

“I, uncle! Why, what are you thinking of?”

“No? Just fancy, my dear fellow! and I’ve been thinking all this time how
f—funny that the vice-governor of Kadueff should be here with quite a
different face: he had a fine intelligent, dig—dignified face, you know. A
wo—wonderful fellow! Always writing verses, too; he was rather like the
Ki—King of Diamonds from the side view, but—”

“No, prince,” interrupted Maria Alexandrovna. “I assure you, you’ll ruin
yourself with the life you are leading! To make a hermit of oneself for
five years, and see no one, and hear no one: you’re a lost man, dear
prince! Ask any one of those who love you, they’ll all tell you the same;
you’re a lost man!”

“No,” cried the prince, “really?”

“Yes, I assure you of it! I am speaking to you as a sister—as a friend! I
am telling you this because you are very dear to me, and because the
memory of the past is sacred to me. No, no! You must change your way of
living; otherwise you will fall ill, and break up, and die!”

“Gracious heavens! Surely I shan’t d—die so soon?” cried the old man.
“You—you are right about being ill; I am ill now and then. I’ll tell you
all the sy—symptoms! I’ll de—detail them to you. Firstly I—”

“Uncle, don’t you think you had better tell us all about it another day?”
Paul interrupted hurriedly. “I think we had better be starting just now,
don’t you?”

“Yes—yes, perhaps, perhaps. But remind me to tell you another time; it’s a
most interesting case, I assure you!”

“But listen, my dear prince!” Maria Alexandrovna resumed, “why don’t you
try being doctored abroad?”

“Ab—road? Yes, yes—I shall certainly go abroad. I remember when I was
abroad, about ’20; it was delightfully g—gay and jolly. I very nearly
married a vi—viscountess, a French woman. I was fearfully in love, but
som—somebody else married her, not I. It was a very s—strange thing. I had
only gone away for a coup—couple of hours, and this Ger—German baron
fellow came and carried her off! He went into a ma—madhouse afterwards!”

“Yes, dear prince, you must look after your health. There are such good
doctors abroad; and—besides, the mere change of life, what will not that
alone do for you! You _must_ desert your dear Donchanovo, if only for a
time!”

“C—certainly, certainly! I’ve long meant to do it. I’m going to try
hy—hydropathy!”

“Hydropathy?”

“Yes. I’ve tried it once before: I was abroad, you know, and they
persuaded me to try drinking the wa—waters. There wasn’t anything the
matter with me, but I agreed, just out of deli—delicacy for their
feelings; and I did seem to feel easier, somehow. So I drank, and drank,
and dra—ank up a whole waterfall; and I assure you if I hadn’t fallen ill
just then I should have been quite well, th—thanks to the water! But, I
confess, you’ve frightened me so about these ma—maladies and things, I
feel quite put out. I’ll come back d—directly!”

“Why, prince, where are you off to?” asked Maria Alexandrovna in surprise.

“Directly, directly. I’m just going to note down an i—idea!”

“What sort of idea?” cried Paul, bursting with laughter.

Maria Alexandrovna lost all patience.

“I cannot understand what you find to laugh at!” she cried, as the old man
disappeared; “to laugh at an honourable old man, and turn every word of
his into ridicule—presuming on his angelic good nature. I assure you I
_blushed_ for you, Paul Alexandrovitch! Why, what do you see in him to
laugh at? I never saw anything funny about him!”

“Well, I laugh because he does not recognise people, and talks such
nonsense!”

“That’s simply the result of his sad life, of his dreadful five years’
captivity, under the guardianship of that she-devil! You should _pity_,
not laugh at him! He did not even know _me_; you saw it yourself. I tell
you it’s a crying shame; he must be saved, at all costs! I recommend him
to go abroad so that he may get out of the clutches of that—beast of a
woman!”

“Do you know what—we must find him a wife!” cried Paul.

“Oh, Mr. Mosgliakoff, you are too bad; you really are too bad!”

“No, no, Maria Alexandrovna; I assure you, this time I’m speaking in all
seriousness. Why _not_ marry him off? Isn’t it rather a brilliant idea?
What harm can marriage do him? On the contrary, he is in that position
that such a step alone can save him! In the first place, he will get rid
of that fox of a woman; and, secondly, he may find some girl, or better
still some widow—kind, good, wise and gentle, and poor, who will look
after him as his own daughter would, and who will be sensible of the
honour he does her in making her his wife! And what could be better for
the old fellow than to have such a person about him, rather than the—woman
he has now? Of course she must be nice-looking, for uncle appreciates good
looks; didn’t you observe how he stared at Miss Zina?”

“But how will you find him such a bride?” asked Nastasia Petrovna, who had
listened intently to Paul’s suggestion.

“What a question! Why, you yourself, if you pleased! and why not, pray? In
the first place, you are good-looking, you are a widow, you are generous,
you are poor (at least I don’t think you are very rich). Then you are a
very reasonable woman: you’ll learn to love him, and take good care of
him; you’ll send that other woman to the deuce, and take your husband
abroad, where you will feed him on pudding and lollipops till the moment
of his quitting this wicked world, which will be in about a year, or in a
couple of months perhaps. After that, you emerge a princess, a rich widow,
and, as a prize for your goodness to the old gentleman, you’ll marry a
fine young marquis, or a governor-general, or somebody of the sort!
There—that’s a pretty enough prospect, isn’t it?”

“Tfu! Goodness me! I should fall in love with him at once, out of pure
gratitude, if he only proposed to me!” said the widow, with her black eyes
all ablaze; “but, of course, it’s all nonsense!”

“Nonsense, is it? Shall I make it sound sense, then, for you? Ask me
prettily, and if I don’t make you his betrothed by this evening, you may
cut my little finger off! Why, there’s nothing in the world easier than to
talk uncle into anything you please! He’ll only say, ‘Ye—yes, ye—yes,’
just as you heard him now! We’ll marry him so that he doesn’t know
anything about it, if you like? We’ll deceive him and marry him, if you
please! Any way you like, it can be done! Why, it’s for his own good; it’s
out of pity for himself! Don’t you think, seriously, Nastasia Petrovna,
that you had better put on some smart clothes in any case?”

Paul’s enthusiasm amounted by now to something like madness, while the
widow’s mouth watered at his idea, in spite of her better judgment.

“I know, I know I look horridly untidy!” she said. “I go about anyhow,
nowadays! There’s nothing to dress for. Do I really look like a regular
cook?”

All this time Maria Alexandrovna sat still, with a strange expression on
her face. I shall not be far wrong if I say that she listened to Paul’s
wild suggestion with a look of terror, almost: she was confused and
startled; at last she recollected herself, and spoke.

“All this is very nice, of course; but at the same time it is utter
nonsense, and perfectly out of the question!” she observed cuttingly.

“Why, why, my good Maria Alexandrovna? Why is it such nonsense, or why out
of the question?”

“For many reasons; and, principally because you are, as the prince is
also, a guest in my house; and I cannot permit anyone to forget their
respect towards my establishment! I shall consider your words as a joke,
Paul Alexandrovitch, and nothing more! Here comes the prince—thank
goodness!”

“Here I am!” cried the old man as he entered. “It’s a wo—wonderful thing
how many good ideas of all s—sorts I’m having to-day! and another day I
may spend the whole of it without a single one! As—tonishing? not one all
day!”

“Probably the result of your accident, to-day, uncle! Your nerves got
shaken up, you see, and ——”

“Ye—yes, I think so, I think so too; and I look on the accident as
pro—fitable, on the whole; and therefore I’m going to excuse the coachman.
I don’t think it was an at—tempt on my life, after all, do you? Besides,
he was punished a little while a—go, when his beard was sh—shaved off!”

“Beard shaved off? Why, uncle, his beard is as big as a German state!”

“Ye—yes, a German state, you are very happy in your ex—pressions, my boy!
but it’s a fa—false one. Fancy what happened: I sent for a price-current
for false hair and beards, and found advertisements for splendid
ser—vants’ and coachmen’s beards, very cheap—extraordinarily so! I sent
for one, and it certainly was a be—auty. But when we wanted to clap it on
the coachman, we found he had one of his own t—twice as big; so I thought,
shall I cut off his, or let him wear it, and send this one b—back? and I
decided to shave his off, and let him wear the f—false one!”

“On the theory that art is higher than nature, I suppose uncle?”

“Yes, yes! Just so—and I assure you, when we cut off his beard he suffered
as much as though we were depriving him of all he held most dear! But we
must be go—going, my boy!”

“But I hope, dear prince, that you will only call upon the governor!”
cried Maria Alexandrovna, in great agitation. “You are _mine_ now, Prince;
you belong to _my_ family for the whole of this day! Of course I will say
nothing about the society of this place. Perhaps you are thinking of
paying Anna Nicolaevna a visit? I will not say a word to dissuade you; but
at the same time I am quite convinced that—time will show! Remember one
thing, dear Prince, that I am your sister, your nurse, your guardian for
to-day at least, and oh!—I tremble for you. You don’t know these people,
Prince, as I do! You don’t know them fully: but time will teach you all
you do not know.”

“Trust me, Maria Alexandrovna!” said Paul, “it shall all be exactly as I
have promised you!”

“Oh—but you’re such a weathercock! I can never trust _you_! I shall wait
for you at dinner time, Prince; we dine early. How sorry I am that my
husband happens to be in the country on such an occasion! How happy he
would have been to see you! He esteems you so highly, Prince; he is so
sincerely attached to you!”

“Your husband? dear me! So you have a h—husband, too!” observed the old
man.

“Oh, prince, prince! how forgetful you are! Why, you have _quite_, quite
forgotten the past! My husband, Afanassy Matveyevitch, surely you must
remember him? He is in the country: but you have seen him thousands of
times before! Don’t you remember—Afanassy Matveyevitch!”

“Afanassy Matveyevitch. Dear me!—and in the co—country! how very charming!
So you have a husband! dear me, I remember a vaudeville very like that,
something about—

                           “The husband’s here,
                         And his wife at Tvere.”

Charming, charming—such a good rhyme too; and it’s a most ri—diculous
story! Charming, charming; the wife’s away, you know, at Jaroslaf or Tv——
or somewhere, and the husband is——is——Dear me! I’m afraid I’ve forgotten
what we were talking about! Yes, yes—we must be going, my boy! _Au revoir,
madame; adieu, ma charmante demoiselle_” he added, turning to Zina, and
putting the ends of her fingers to his lips.

“Come back to dinner,—to dinner, prince! don’t forget to come back here
quick!” cried Maria Alexandrovna after them as they went out; “be back to
dinner!”

CHAPTER V.

“Nastasia Petrovna, I think you had better go and see what is doing in the
kitchen!” observed Maria Alexandrovna, as she returned from seeing the
prince off. “I’m sure that rascal Nikitka will spoil the dinner! Probably
he’s drunk already!” The widow obeyed.

As the latter left the room, she glanced suspiciously at Maria
Alexandrovna, and observed that the latter was in a high state of
agitation. Therefore, instead of going to look after Nikitka, she went
through the “Salon,” along the passage to her own room, and through that
to a dark box-room, where the old clothes of the establishment and such
things were stored. There she approached the locked door on tiptoe; and
stifling her breath, she bent to the keyhole, through which she peeped,
and settled herself to listen intently. This door, which was always kept
shut, was one of the three doors communicating with the room where Maria
Alexandrovna and Zina were now left alone. Maria Alexandrovna always
considered Nastasia an untrustworthy sort of woman, although extremely
silly into the bargain. Of course she had suspected the widow—more than
once—of eavesdropping; but it so happened that at the moment Madame
Moskaleva was too agitated and excited to think of the usual precautions.

She was sitting in her arm-chair and gazing at Zina. Zina felt that her
mother was looking at her, and was conscious of an unpleasant sensation at
her heart.

“Zina!”

Zina slowly turned her head towards the speaker, and lifted her splendid
dark eyes to hers.

“Zina, I wish to speak to you on a most important matter!”

Zina adopted an attentive air, and sat still with folded hands, waiting
for light. In her face there was an expression of annoyance as well as
irony, which she did her best to hide.

“I wish to ask you first, Zina, what you thought of _that_ Mosgliakoff,
to-day?”

“You have known my opinion of him for a long time!” replied Zina, surlily.

“Yes, yes, of course! but I think he is getting just a little _too_
troublesome, with his continual bothering you—”

“Oh, but he says he is in love with me, in which case his importunity is
pardonable!”

“Strange! You used not to be so ready to find his offences pardonable; you
used to fly out at him if ever I mentioned his name!”

“Strange, too, that you always defended him, and were so very anxious that
I should marry him!—and now you are the first to attack him!”

“Yes; I don’t deny, Zina, that I did wish, then, to see you married to
Mosgliakoff! It was painful to me to witness your continual grief, your
sufferings, which I can well realize—whatever you may think to the
contrary!—and which deprived me of my rest at night! I determined at last
that there was but one great change of life that would ever save you from
the sorrows of the past, and that change was matrimony! We are not rich;
we cannot afford to go abroad. All the asses in the place prick their long
ears, and wonder that you should be unmarried at twenty-three years old;
and they must needs invent all sorts of stories to account for the fact!
As if I would marry you to one of our wretched little town councillors, or
to Ivan Ivanovitch, the family lawyer! There are no husbands for _you_ in
this place, Zina! Of course Paul Mosgliakoff is a silly sort of a fellow,
but he is better than these people here: he is fairly born, at least, and
he has 150 serfs and landed property, all of which is better than living
by bribes and corruption, and goodness knows what jobbery besides, as
these do! and that is why I allowed my eyes to rest on him. But I give you
my solemn word, I never had any real sympathy for him! and if Providence
has sent you someone better now, oh, my dear girl, how fortunate that you
have not given your word to Mosgliakoff! You didn’t tell him anything for
certain to-day, did you, Zina?”

“What is the use of beating about the bush, when the whole thing lies in a
couple of words?” said Zina, with some show of annoyance.

“Beating about the bush, Zina? Is that the way to speak to your mother?
But what am I? You have long ceased to trust to your poor mother! You have
long looked upon me as your enemy, and not as your mother at all!”

“Oh, come mother! you and I are beyond quarrelling about an expression!
Surely we understand one another by now? It is about time we did, anyhow!”

“But you offend me, my child! you will not believe that I am ready to
devote _all, all_ I can give, in order to establish your destiny on a safe
and happy footing!”

Zina looked angrily and sarcastically at her mother.

“Would not you like to marry me to this old prince, now, in order to
establish my destiny on a safe and happy footing?”

“I have not said a word about it; but, as you mention the fact, I will say
that if you _were_ to marry the prince it would be a very happy thing for
you, and—”

“Oh! Well, I consider the idea utter nonsense!” cried the girl
passionately. “Nonsense, humbug! and what’s more, I think you have a good
deal too much poetical inspiration, mamma; you are a woman poet in the
fullest sense of the term, and they call you by that name here! You are
always full of projects; and the impracticability and absurdity of your
ideas does not in the least discourage you. I felt, when the prince was
sitting here, that you had that notion in your head. When Mosgliakoff was
talking nonsense there about marrying the old man to somebody I read all
your thoughts in your face. I am ready to bet any money that you are
thinking of it now, and that you have come to me now about this very
question! However, as your perpetual projects on my behalf are beginning
to weary me to death, I must beg you not to say one word about it, not
_one word_, mamma; do you hear me? _not one word_; and I beg you will
remember what I say!” She was panting with rage.

“You are a child, Zina; a poor sorrow-worn, sick child!” said Maria
Alexandrovna in tearful accents. “You speak to your poor mother
disrespectfully; you wound me deeply, my dear; there is not another mother
in the world who would have borne what I have to bear from you every day!
But you are suffering, you are sick, you are sorrowful, and I am your
mother, and, first of all, I am a Christian woman! I must bear it all, and
forgive it. But one word, Zina: if I had really thought of the union you
suggest, why would you consider it so impracticable and absurd? In my
opinion, Mosgliakoff has never said a wiser thing than he did to-day, when
he declared that marriage was what alone could save the prince,—not, of
course, marriage with that slovenly slut, Nastasia; there he certainly
_did_ make a fool of himself!”

“Now look here, mamma; do you ask me this out of pure curiosity, or with
design? Tell me the truth.”

“All I ask is, why does it appear to you to be so absurd?”

“Good heavens, mother, you’ll drive me wild! What a fate!” cried Zina,
stamping her foot with impatience. “I’ll tell you why, if you can’t see
for yourself. Not to mention all the other evident absurdities of the
plan, to take advantage of the weakened wits of a poor old man, and
deceive him and marry him—an old cripple, in order to get hold of his
money,—and then every day and every hour to wish for his death, is, in my
opinion, not only nonsense, but so mean, _so_ mean, mamma, that I—I can’t
congratulate you on your brilliant idea; that’s all I can say!”

There was silence for one minute.

“Zina, do you remember all that happened two years ago?” asked Maria
Alexandrovna of a sudden.

Zina trembled.

“Mamma!” she said, severely, “you promised me solemnly never to mention
that again.”

“And I ask you now, as solemnly, my dear child, to allow me to break that
promise, just once! I have never broken it before. Zina! the time has come
for a full and clear understanding between us! These two years of silence
have been terrible. We cannot go on like this. I am ready to pray you, on
my knees, to let me speak. Listen, Zina, your own mother who bore you
beseeches you, on her knees! And I promise you faithfully, Zina, and
solemnly, on the word of an unhappy but adoring mother, that never, under
any circumstances, not even to save my life, will I ever mention the
subject again. This shall be the last time, but it is absolutely
necessary!”

Maria Alexandrovna counted upon the effect of her words, and with reason:

“Speak, then!” said Zina, growing whiter every moment.

“Thank you, Zina!——Two years ago there came to the house, to teach your
little brother Mitya, since dead, a tutor——”

“Why do you begin so solemnly, mamma? Why all this eloquence, all these
quite unnecessary details, which are painful to me, and only too well
known to both of us?” cried Zina with a sort of irritated disgust.

“Because, my dear child, I, your mother, felt in some degree bound to
justify myself before you; and also because I wish to present this whole
question to you from an entirely new point of view, and not from that
mistaken position which you are accustomed to take up with regard to it;
and because, lastly, I think you will thus better understand the
conclusion at which I shall arrive upon the whole question. Do not think,
dear child, that I wish to trifle with your heart! No, Zina, you will find
in me a real mother; and perhaps, with tears streaming from your eyes, you
will ask and beseech at my feet—at the feet of the ’_mean woman_,’ as you
have just called me,—yes, and pray for that reconciliation which you have
rejected so long! That’s why I wish to recall all, Zina, _all_ that has
happened, from the very beginning; and without this I shall not speak at
all!”

“Speak, then!” repeated Zina, cursing the necessity for her mother’s
eloquence from the very bottom of her heart.

“I continue then, Zina!——This tutor, a master of the parish school, almost
a boy, makes upon you what is, to me, a totally inexplicable impression. I
built too much upon my confidence in your good sense, or your noble pride,
and principally upon the fact of his insignificance—(I must speak out!)—to
allow myself to harbour the slightest suspicion of you! And then you
suddenly come to me, one fine day, and state that you intend to marry the
man! Zina, it was putting a knife to my heart! I gave a shriek and lost
consciousness.

“But of course you remember all this. Of course I thought it my duty to
use all my power over you, which power you called tyranny. Think for
yourself—a boy, the son of a deacon, receiving a salary of twelve roubles
a month—a writer of weak verses which are printed, out of pity, in the
’library of short readings.’ A man, a boy, who could talk of nothing but
that accursed Shakespeare,—this boy to be the husband of Zenaida
Moskaloff! Forgive me, Zina, but the very thought of it all makes me
_wild_!

“I rejected him, of course. But no power would stop _you_; your father
only blinked his eyes, as usual, and could not even understand what I was
telling him about. You continue your relations with this boy, even giving
him rendezvous, and, worst of all, you allow yourself to correspond with
him!

“Rumours now begin to flit about town: I am assailed with hints; they blow
their trumpets of joy and triumph; and suddenly all my fears and
anticipations are verified! You and he quarrel over something or other; he
shows himself to be a boy (I can’t call him a man!), who is utterly
unworthy of you, and threatens to show your letters all over the town! On
hearing this threat, you, beside yourself with irritation, boxed his ears.
Yes, Zina, I am aware of even that fact! I know all, all! But to
continue—the wretched boy shows one of your letters the very same day to
that ne’er-do-well Zanshin, and within an hour Natalie Dimitrievna holds
it in her hands—my deadly enemy! The same evening the miserable fellow
attempts to put an end to himself, in remorse. In a word, there is a
fearful scandal stirred up. That slut, Nastasia, comes panting to me with
the dreadful news; she tells me that Natalie Dimitrievna has had your
letter for a whole hour. In a couple of hours the whole town will learn of
your foolishness! I bore it all. I did not fall down in a swoon; but oh,
the blows, the blows you dealt to my heart, Zina! That shameless scum of
the earth, Nastasia, says she will get the letter back for two hundred
roubles! I myself run over, in thin shoes, too, through the snow to the
Jew Baumstein, and pledge my diamond clasps—a keepsake of my dear
mother’s! In a couple of hours the letter is in my hands! Nastasia had
stolen it; she had broken open a desk, and your honour was safe!

“But what a dreadful day you had sentenced me to live! I noticed some grey
hairs among my raven locks for the first time, next morning! Zina, you
have judged this boy’s action yourself now! You can admit now, and perhaps
smile a bitter smile over the admission, that it was beyond the limits of
good sense to wish to entrust your fate to this youth.

“But since that fatal time you are wretched, my child, you are miserable!
You cannot forget him, or rather not him—for he was never worthy of
you,—but you cannot forget the phantom of your past joy! This wretched
young fellow is now on the point of death—consumption, they say; and you,
angel of goodness that you are! you do not wish to marry while he is
alive, because you fear to harass him in his last days; because to this
day he is miserable with jealousy, though I am convinced that he never
loved you in the best and highest sense of the word! I know well that,
hearing of Mosgliakoff’s proposal to you, he has been in a flutter of
jealousy, and has spied upon you and your actions ever since; and you—you
have been merciful to him, my child. And oh! God knows how I have watered
my pillow with tears for you!”

“Oh, mother, do drop all this sort of thing!” cried Zina, with
inexpressible agony in her tone. “Surely we needn’t hear all about your
pillow!” she added, sharply. “Can’t we get on without all this declamation
and pirouetting?”

“You do not believe me, Zina! Oh! do not look so unfriendly at me, my
child! My eyes have not been dry these two years. I have hidden my tears
from you; but I am changed, Zina mine, much changed and in many ways! I
have long known of your feelings, Zina, but I admit I have only lately
realized the depth of your mental anguish. Can you blame me, my child, if
I looked upon this attachment of yours as romanticism—called into being by
that accursed Shakespeare, who shoves his nose in everywhere where he
isn’t wanted?

“What mother would blame me for my fears of that kind, for my measures,
for the severity of my judgment? But now, understanding as I do, and
realizing your two years’ sufferings, I can estimate the depth of your
real feelings. Believe me, I understand you far better than you understand
yourself! I am convinced that you love not him—not this unnatural boy,—but
your lost happiness, your broken hopes, your cracked idol!

“I have loved too—perhaps more deeply than yourself; I, too, have
suffered, I, too, have lost my exalted ideals and seen them levelled with
the earth; and therefore who can blame me now—and, above all, can _you_
blame me now,—if I consider a marriage with the prince to be the one
saving, the one _essential_ move left to you in your present position”?

Zina listened to this long declamation with surprise. She knew well that
her mother never adopted this tone without good reason. However this last
and unexpected conclusion fairly amazed her.

“You don’t mean to say you seriously entertain the idea of marrying me to
this prince?” she cried bewildered, and gazing at her mother almost with
alarm; “that this is no mere idea, no project, no flighty inspiration, but
your deliberate intention? I _have_ guessed right, then? And pray, _how_
is this marriage going to save me? and _why_ is it essential to me in my
present position? And—and what has all this to do with what you have been
talking about?——I cannot understand you, mother,—not a bit!”

“And _I_ can’t understand, angel mine, how you _cannot_ see the connection
of it all!” cried Maria Alexandrovna, in her turn. “In the first place,
you would pass into new society, into a new world. You would leave for
ever this loathsome little town, so full of sad memories for you; where
you meet neither friends nor kindness; where they have bullied and
maligned you; where all these—these _magpies_ hate you because you are
good looking! You could go abroad this very spring, to Italy, Switzerland,
Spain!—to Spain, Zina, where the Alhambra is, and where the Guadalquiver
flows—no wretched little stream like this of ours!”

“But, one moment, mother; you talk as though I were married already, or at
least as if the prince had made me an offer!”

“Oh, no—oh dear, no! don’t bother yourself about that, my angel! I know
what I’m talking about! Let me proceed. I’ve said my ‘firstly;’ now, then,
for my ‘secondly!’ I understand, dear child, with what loathing you would
give your hand to that Mosgliakoff!——”

“I know, without your telling me so, that I shall never be _his_ wife!”
cried Zina, angrily, and with flashing eyes.

“If only you knew, my angel, how I understand and enter into your loathing
for him! It is dreadful to vow before the altar that you will love a man
whom you _cannot_ love—how dreadful to belong to one whom you cannot
esteem! And he insists on your _love_—he only marries you for love. I can
see it by the way he looks at you! Why deceive ourselves? I have suffered
from the same thing for twenty-five years; your father ruined me—he, so to
speak, sucked up my youth! You have seen my tears many a time!——”

“Father’s away in the country, don’t touch _him_, please!” said Zina.

“I know you always take his part! Oh, Zina, my very heart trembled within
me when I thought to arrange your marriage with Mosgliakoff for financial
reasons! I trembled for the consequences. But with the prince it is
different, you need not deceive him; you cannot be expected to give him
your _love_, not your _love_—oh, no! and he is not in a state to ask it of
you!”

“Good heavens, what nonsense! I do assure you you are in error from the
very first step—from the first and most important step! Understand, that I
do not care to make a martyr of myself for some unknown reason! Know,
also, that I shall not marry anyone at all; I shall remain a maid. You
have bitten my head off for the last two years because I would not marry.
Well, you must accept the fact, and make the best of it; that’s all I can
say, and so it shall be!”

“But Zina, darling—my Zina, don’t be so cross before you have heard me
out! What a hot-headed little person you are, to be sure! Let me show you
the matter from my point of view, and you’ll agree with me—you really
will! The prince will live a year—two at most; and surely it is better to
be a young widow than a decayed old maid! Not to mention the fact that you
will be a princess—free, rich, independent! I dare say you look with
contempt upon all these calculations—founded upon his death; but I am a
mother, and what mother will blame me for my foresight?

“And if you, my angel of kindness, are unwilling to marry, even now, out
of tenderness for that wretched boy’s feelings, oh, think, think how, by
marrying this prince, you will rejoice his heart and soothe and comfort
his soul! For if he has a single particle of commonsense, he must
understand that jealousy of this old man were _too_ absurd—_too_
ridiculous! He will understand that you marry him—for money, for
convenience; that stern necessity compels you to it!

“And lastly, he will understand that—that,—well I simply wish to say,
that, upon the prince’s death, you will be at liberty to marry whomsoever
you please.”

“That’s a truly simple arrangement! All I have to do is to marry this
prince, rob him of his money, and then count upon his death in order to
marry my lover! You are a clever arithmetician, mamma; you do your sums
and get your totals nicely. You wish to seduce me by offering me this! Oh,
I understand you, mamma—I understand you well! You cannot resist the
expression of your noble sentiments and exalted ideas, even in the
manufacture of a nasty business. Why can’t you say simply and
straightforwardly, ‘Zina, this is a dirty affair, but it will pay us, so
please agree with me?’ at all events, that would be candid and frank on
your part.”

“But, my dear child, why, _why_ look at it from this point of view? Why
look at it under the light of suspicion as _deceit_, and low cunning, and
covetousness? You consider my calculations as meanness, as deceit; but, by
all that is good and true, where is the meanness? Show me the deceit. Look
at yourself in the glass: you are so beautiful, that a kingdom would be a
fair price for you! And suddenly you, you, the possessor of this divine
beauty, sacrifice yourself, in order to soothe the last years of an old
man’s life! You would be like a beautiful star, shedding your light over
the evening of his days. You would be like the fresh green ivy, twining in
and about his old age; not the stinging nettle that this wretched woman at
his place is, fastening herself upon him, and thirstily sucking his blood!
Surely his money, his rank are not worthy of being put in the scales
beside _you_? Where is the meanness of it; where is the deceit of all
this? You don’t know what you are saying, Zina.”

“I suppose they _are_ worthy of being weighed against me, if I am to marry
a cripple for them! No, mother, however you look at it, it is deceit, and
you can’t get out of _that_!”

“On the contrary, my dear child, I can look at it from a high, almost from
an exalted—nay, Christian—point of view. You, yourself, told me once, in a
fit of temporary insanity of some sort, that you wished to be a sister of
charity. You had suffered; you said your heart could love no more. If,
then, you cannot love, turn your thoughts to the higher aspect of the
case. This poor old man has also suffered—he is unhappy. I have known him,
and felt the deepest sympathy towards him—akin to love,—for many a year.
Be his friend, his daughter, be his plaything, even, if you like; but warm
his old heart, and you are doing a good work—a virtuous, kind, noble work
of love.

“He may be funny to look at; don’t think of that. He’s but half a man—pity
him! You are a Christian girl—do whatever is right by him; and this will
be medicine for your own heart-wounds; employment, action, all this will
heal you too, and where is the deceit here? But you do not believe me.
Perhaps you think that I am deceiving myself when I thus talk of duty and
of action. You think that I, a woman of the world, have no right to good
feeling and the promptings of duty and virtue. Very well, do not trust me,
if you like: insult me, do what you please to your poor mother; but you
will have to admit that her words carry the stamp of good sense,—they are
saving words! Imagine that someone else is talking to you, not I. Shut
your eyes, and fancy that some invisible being is speaking. What is
worrying you is the idea that all this is for money—a sort of sale or
purchase. Very well, then _refuse_ the money, if it is so loathsome to
your eyes. Leave just as much as is absolutely necessary for yourself, and
give the rest to the poor. Help _him_, if you like, the poor fellow who
lies there a-dying!”

“He would never accept my help!” muttered Zina, as though to herself.

“He would not, but his mother would!” said Maria Alexandrovna. “She would
take it, and keep her secret. You sold your ear-rings, a present from your
aunt, half a year or so ago, and helped her; _I_ know all about it! I
know, too, that the woman washes linen in order to support her unfortunate
son!”

“He will soon be where he requires no more help!”

“I know, I understand your hints.” Maria Alexandrovna sighed a real sigh.
“They say he is in a consumption, and must die.

“But _who_ says so?

“I asked the doctor the other day, because, having a tender heart, Zina, I
felt interested in the poor fellow. The doctor said that he was convinced
the malady was _not_ consumption; that it was dangerous, no doubt, but
still _not_ consumption, only some severe affection of the lungs. Ask him
yourself! He certainly told me that under different conditions—change of
climate and of his style of living,—the sick man might well recover. He
said—and I have read it too, somewhere, that off Spain there is a
wonderful island, called Malaga—I think it was Malaga; anyhow, the name
was like some wine, where, not only ordinary sufferers from chest
maladies, but even consumptive patients, recover entirely, solely by
virtue of the climate, and that sick people go there on purpose to be
cured.

“Oh, but Spain—the Alhambra alone—and the lemons, and the riding on mules.
All this is enough in itself to impress a poetical nature. You think he
would not accept your help, your money—for such a journey? Very
well—deceit is permissible where it may save a man’s life.

“Give him hope, too! Promise him your love; promise to marry him when you
are a widow! Anything in the world can be said with care and tact! Your
own mother would not counsel you to an ignoble deed, Zina. You will do as
I say, to save this boy’s life; and with this object, everything is
permissible! You will revive his hope; he will himself begin to think of
his health, and listen to what the doctor says to him. He will do his best
to resuscitate his dead happiness; and if he gets well again, even if you
never marry him, you will have saved him—raised him from the dead!

“I can look at him with some sympathy. I admit I can, now! Perhaps sorrow
has changed him for the better; and I say frankly, if he should be worthy
of you when you become a widow, marry him, by all means! You will be rich
then, and independent. You can not only cure him, but, having done so, you
can give him position in the world—a career! Your marriage to him will
then be possible and pardonable, not, as now, an absolute impossibility!

“For what would become of both of you were you to be capable of such
madness _now_? Universal contempt, beggary; smacking little boys, which is
part of his duty; the reading of Shakespeare; perpetual, hopeless life in
Mordasoff; and lastly his certain death, which will undoubtedly take place
before long unless he is taken away from here!

“While, if you resuscitate him—if you raise him from the dead, as it were,
you raise him to a good, useful, and virtuous life! He may then enter
public life—make himself rank, and a name! At the least, even if he must
die, he will die happy, at peace with himself, in your arms—for he will be
by then assured of your love and forgiveness of the past, and lying
beneath the scent of myrtles and lemons, beneath the tropical sky of the
South. Oh, Zina, all this is within your grasp, and all—all is _gain_.
Yes, and all to be had by merely marrying this prince.”

Maria Alexandrovna broke off, and for several minutes there was silence;
not a word was said on either side: Zina was in a state of indescribable
agitation. I say indescribable because I will not attempt to describe
Zina’s feelings: I cannot guess at them; but I _think_ that Maria
Alexandrovna had found the road to her heart.

Not knowing how her words had sped with her daughter, Maria Alexandrovna
now began to work her busy brain to imagine and prepare herself for every
possible humour that Zina might prove to be in; but at last she concluded
that she had happened upon the right track after all. Her rude hand had
touched the sorest place in Zina’s heart, but her crude and absurd
sentimental twaddle had not blinded her daughter. “However, that doesn’t
matter”—thought the mother. “All I care to do is to make her _think_; I
wish my ideas to stick!” So she reflected, and she gained her end; the
effect was made—the arrow reached the mark. Zina had listened hungrily as
her mother spoke; her cheeks were burning, her breast heaved.

“Listen, mother,” she said at last, with decision; though the sudden
pallor of her face showed clearly what the decision had cost her. “Listen
mother——” But at this moment a sudden noise in the entrance hall, and a
shrill female voice, asking for Maria Alexandrovna, interrupted Zina,
while her mother jumped up from her chair.

“Oh! the devil fly away with this magpie of a woman!” cried the latter
furiously. “Why, I nearly drove her out by force only a fortnight ago!”
she added, almost in despair. “I can’t, I can’t receive her now. Zina,
this question is too important to be put off: she must have news for me or
she never would have dared to come. I won’t receive the old —— Oh! _how_
glad I am to see you, dear Sophia Petrovna. What lucky chance brought
_you_ to see me? What a _charming_ surprise!” said Maria Alexandrovna,
advancing to receive her guest.

Zina escaped out of the room.

CHAPTER VI.

Mrs. Colonel Tarpuchin, or Sophia Petrovna, was only morally like a
magpie; she was more akin to the sparrow tribe, viewed physically. She was
a little bit of a woman of fifty summers or so, with lively eyes, and
yellow patches all over her face. On her little wizened body and spare
limbs she wore a black silk dress, which was perpetually on the rustle:
for this little woman could never sit still for an instant.

This was the most inveterate and bitterest scandal-monger in the town. She
took her stand on the fact that she was a Colonel’s wife, though she often
fought with her husband, the Colonel, and scratched his face handsomely on
such occasions.

Add to this, that it was her custom to drink four glasses of “vodki” at
lunch, or earlier, and four more in the evening; and that she hated Mrs.
Antipova to madness.

“I’ve just come in for a minute, _mon ange_,” she panted; “it’s no use
sitting down—no time! I wanted to let you know what’s going on, simply
that the whole town has gone mad over this prince. Our ‘beauties,’ you
know what I mean! are all after him, fishing for him, pulling him about,
giving him champagne—you would not believe it! _would_ you now? How on
earth you could ever have let him out of the house, I can’t understand!
Are you aware that he’s at Natalia Dimitrievna’s at this moment?”

“At _Natalia Dimitrievna’s_?” cried Maria Alexandrovna jumping up. “Why,
he was only going to see the Governor, and then call in for one moment at
the Antipova’s!”

“Oh, yes, just for one moment—of course! Well, catch him if you can,
there! That’s all I can say. He found the Governor ‘out,’ and went on to
Mrs. Antipova’s, where he has promised to dine. There Natalia caught
him—she is never away from Mrs. Antipova nowadays,—and persuaded him to
come away with her to lunch. So there’s your prince! catch him if you
can!”

“But how—Mosgliakoff’s with him—he promised—”

“Mosgliakoff, indeed,—why, he’s gone too! and they’ll be playing at cards
and clearing him out before he knows where he is! And the things Natalia
is saying, too—out loud if you please! She’s telling the prince to his
face that you, _you_ have got hold of him with certain views—_vous
comprenez_?”

“She calmly tells him this to his face! Of course he doesn’t understand a
word of it, and simply sits there like a soaked cat, and says ‘Ye—yes!’
And would you believe it, she has trotted out her Sonia—a girl of fifteen,
in a dress down to her knees—my word on it? Then she has sent for that
little orphan—Masha; she’s in a short dress too,—why, I swear it doesn’t
reach her knees. I looked at it carefully through my pince-nez! She’s
stuck red caps with some sort of feathers in them on their heads, and set
them to dance some silly dance to the piano accompaniment for the prince’s
benefit! You know his little weakness as to our sex,—well, you can imagine
him staring at them through his glass and saying, ‘_Charmant!_—What
figures!’ Tfu! They’ve turned the place into a music hall! Call that a
dance! I was at school at Madame Jarne’s, I know, and there were plenty of
princesses and countesses there with me, too; and I know I danced before
senators and councillors, and earned their applause, too: but as for this
dance—it’s a low can-can, and nothing more! I simply _burned_ with
shame,—I couldn’t stand it, and came out.”

“How! have you been at Natalia Dimitrievna’s? Why, you——!”

“What!—she offended me last week? is that what you you mean? Oh, but, my
dear, I _had_ to go and have a peep at the prince—else, when should I have
seen him? As if I would have gone _near_ her but for this wretched old
prince. Imagine—chocolate handed round and _me left out_. I’ll let her
have it for that, some day! Well, good-bye, _mon ange_: I must hurry off
to Akulina, and let her know all about it. You may say good-bye to the
prince; he won’t come near you again now! He has no memory left, you know,
and Mrs. Antipova will simply carry him off bodily to her house. He’ll
think it’s all right——They’re all afraid of you, you know; they think that
you want to get hold of him—you understand! Zina, you know!”

“_Quelle horreur!_”

“Oh, yes, I know! I tell you—the whole town is talking about it! Mrs.
Antipova is going to make him stay to dinner—and then she’ll just keep
him! She’s doing it to spite _you_, my angel. I had a look in at her back
premises. _Such_ arrangements, my dear. Knives clattering, people running
about for champagne. I tell you what you must do—go and grab him as he
comes out from Natalia Dimitrievna’s to Antipova’s to dinner. He promised
_you_ first, he’s _your_ guest. Tfu! don’t you be laughed at by this brace
of chattering magpies—good for nothing baggage, both of them. ‘Procuror’s
lady,’ indeed! Why, I’m a Colonel’s wife. Tfu!—_Mais adieu, mon ange_. I
have my own sledge at the door, or I’d go with you.”

Having got rid of this walking newspaper, Maria Alexandrovna waited a
moment, to free herself of a little of her super-abundant agitation. Mrs.
Colonel’s advice was good and practical. There was no use losing
time,—none to lose, in fact. But the greatest difficulty of all was as yet
unsettled.

Maria Alexandrovna flew to Zina’s room.

Zina was walking up and down, pale, with hands folded and head bent on her
bosom: there were tears in her eyes, but Resolve was there too, and
sparkled in the glance which she threw on her mother as the latter entered
the room. She hastily dried her tears, and a sarcastic smile played on her
lips once more.

“Mamma,” she began, anticipating her mother’s speech “you have already
wasted much of your eloquence over me—too much! But you have not blinded
me; I am not a child. To do the work of a sister of mercy, without the
slightest call thereto,—to justify one’s meanness—meanness proceeding in
reality from the purest egotism, by attributing to it noble ends,—all this
is a sort of Jesuitism which cannot deceive _me_. Listen! I repeat, all
_this could not deceive me_, and I wish you to understand that!”

“But, dearest child!” began her mother, in some alarm.

“Be quiet, mamma; have patience, and hear me out. In spite of the full
consciousness that all this is pure Jesuitism, and in spite of my full
knowledge of the absolutely ignoble character of such an act, I accept
your proposition in full,—you hear me—_in full_; and inform you hereby,
that I am ready to marry the prince. More! I am ready to help you to the
best of my power in your endeavours to lure the prince into making me an
offer. Why do I do this? You need not know that; enough that I have
consented. I have consented to the whole thing—to bringing him his boots,
to serving him; I will dance for him, that my meanness may be in some sort
atoned. I shall do all I possibly can so that he shall never regret that
he married me! But in return for my consent I insist upon knowing _how_
you intend to bring the matter about? Since you have spoken so warmly on
the subject—I know you!—I am convinced you must have some definite plan of
operation in your head. Be frank for once in your life; your candour is
the essential condition upon which alone I give my consent. I shall not
decide until you have told me what I require!”

Maria Alexandrovna was so surprised by the unexpected conclusion at which
Zina arrived, that she stood before the latter some little while, dumb
with amazement, and staring at her with all her eyes. Prepared to have to
combat the stubborn romanticism of her daughter—whose obstinate nobility
of character she always feared,—she had suddenly heard this same daughter
consent to all that her mother had required of her.

Consequently, the matter had taken a very different complexion. Her eyes
sparkled with delight:

“Zina, Zina!” she cried; “you are my life, my——”

She could say no more, but fell to embracing and kissing her daughter.

“Oh, mother, I don’t _want_ all this kissing!” cried Zina, with impatience
and disgust. “I don’t need all this rapture on your part; all I want is a
plain answer to my question!”

“But, Zina, I love you; I adore you, darling, and you repel me like this!
I am working for your happiness, child!”

Tears sparkled in her eyes. Maria Alexandrovna really loved her daughter,
in her own way, and just now she actually felt deeply, for once in her
life—thanks to her agitation, and the success of her eloquence.

Zina, in spite of her present distorted view of things in general, knew
that her mother loved her; but this love only annoyed her; she would much
rather—it would have been easier for her—if it had been hate!

“Well, well; don’t be angry, mamma—I’m so excited just now!” she said, to
soothe her mother’s feelings.

“I’m not angry, I’m not angry, darling! I know you are much agitated!”
cried Maria Alexandrovna. “You say, my child, that you wish me to be
candid: very well, I will; I will be _quite_ frank, I assure you. But you
might have trusted me! Firstly, then, I must tell you that I have no
actually organized plan yet—no _detailed_ plan, that is. You must
understand, with that clever little head of yours, you must see, Zina,
that I _cannot_ have such a plan, all cut out. I even anticipate some
difficulties. Why, that magpie of a woman has just been telling me all
sorts of things. We ought to be quick, by the bye; you see, I am quite
open with you! But I swear to you that the end shall be attained!” she
added, ecstatically. “My convictions are not the result of a poetical
nature, as you told me just now; they are founded on facts. I rely on the
weakness of the prince’s intellect—which is a canvas upon which one can
stitch any pattern one pleases!

“The only fear is, we may be interfered with! But a fool of a woman like
that is not going to get the better of _me_!” she added, stamping her
foot, and with flashing eyes. “That’s my part of the business, though; and
to manage it thoroughly I must begin as soon as possible—in fact, the
whole thing, or the most important part of it, must be arranged this very
day!”

“Very well, mamma; but now listen to one more piece of candour. Do you
know why I am so interested in your plan of operations, and do not trust
it? because I am not sure of myself! I have told you already that I
consent to this——meanness; but I must warn you that if I find the details
of your plan of operations _too_ dirty, too mean and repulsive, I shall
not be able to stand it, and shall assuredly throw you over. I know that
this is a new pettiness, to consent to a wicked thing and then fear the
dirt in which it floats! But what’s to be done? So it will be, and I warn
you!”

“But Zina, dear child, where is the wickedness in this?” asked Maria
Alexandrovna timidly. “It is simply a matter of a marriage for profit;
everybody does it! Look at it in this light, and you will see there is
nothing particular in it; it is good ‘form’ enough!”

“Oh, mamma, don’t try to play the fox over me! Don’t you see that I have
consented to everything—to _everything_? What else do you require of me?
Don’t be alarmed if I call things by their proper names! For all you know
it may be my only comfort!” And a bitter smile played over her lips.

“Very well, very well, dear! we may disagree as to ideas and yet be very
fond of one another. But if you are afraid of the working of my plan, and
dread that you will see any baseness or meanness about it, leave it all to
me, dear, and I guarantee you that not a particle of dirt shall soil you!
Your hands shall be clean! As if I would be the one to compromise you!
Trust me entirely, and all shall go grandly and with dignity; all shall be
done worthily; there shall be no scandal—even if there be a whisper
afterwards, we shall all be out of the way, far off! We shall not stay
here, of course! Let them _howl_ if they like, _we_ won’t care. Besides,
they are not worth bothering about, and I wonder at your being so
frightened of these people, Zina. Don’t be angry with me! how can you be
so frightened, with your proud nature?”

“I’m not frightened; you don’t understand me a bit!” said Zina, in a tone
of annoyance.

“Very well, darling; don’t be angry. I only talk like this because these
people about here are always stirring up mud, if they can; while you—this
is the first time in your life you have done a mean action.—_Mean_ action!
What an old fool I am! On the contrary, this is a most generous, _noble_
act! I’ll prove this to you once more, Zina. Firstly, then, it all depends
upon the point of view you take up——”

“Oh! bother your proofs, mother. I’ve surely had enough of them by now,”
cried Zina angrily, and stamped her foot on the floor.

“Well, darling, I won’t; it was stupid of me—I won’t!”

There was another moment’s silence. Maria Alexandrovna looked into her
daughter’s eyes as a little dog looks into the eyes of its mistress.

“I don’t understand how you are going to set about it,” said Zina at last,
in a tone of disgust. “I feel sure you will only plunge yourself into a
pool of shame! I’m not thinking of these people about here. I despise
their opinions; but it would be very ignominious for _you_.”

“Oh! if that’s all, my dear child, don’t bother your head about it:
please, _please_ don’t! Let us be agreed about it, and then you need not
fear for me. Dear me! if you but knew, though, what things I have done,
and kept my skin whole! I tell you this is _nothing_ in comparison with
_real_ difficulties which I have arranged successfully. Only let me try.
But, first of all we must get the prince _alone_, and that as soon as
possible. That’s the first move: all the rest will depend upon the way we
manage this. However, I can foresee the result. They’ll all rise against
us; but I’ll manage _them_ all right! I’m a little nervous about
Mosgliakoff. He——”

“Mosgliakoff!” said Zina, contemptuously.

“Yes, but don’t you be afraid, Zina! I’ll give you my word I’ll work him
so that he shall help us himself. You don’t know me yet, my Zina. My
child, when I heard about this old prince having arrived this morning, the
idea, as it were, shone out all at once in my brain! Who would have
thought of his really coming to us like this! It is a chance such as you
might wait for a thousand years in vain. Zina, my angel! there’s no shame
in what you are doing. What _is_ wrong is to marry a man whom you loathe.
Your marriage with the prince will be no _real_ marriage; it is simply a
domestic contract. It is he, the old fool, who gains by it. It is _he_ who
is made unspeakably, immeasurably happy. Oh! Zina, how lovely you look
to-day. If I were a man I would give you half a kingdom if you but raised
your finger for it! _Asses_ they all are! Who wouldn’t kiss a hand like
this?” and Maria Alexandrovna kissed her daughter’s hand warmly. “Why,
this is my own flesh and blood, Zina. What’s to be done afterwards? You
won’t part with me, will you? You won’t drive your old mother away when
you are happy yourself? No, darling, for though we have quarrelled often
enough, you have not such another friend as I am, Zina! You——”

“Mamma, if you’ve made up your mind to it all, perhaps it is time you set
about making some move in the matter. We are losing time,” said Zina,
impatiently.

“Yes, it is, it is indeed time; and here am I gabbling on while they are
all doing their best to seduce the prince away from us. I must be off at
once. I shall find them, and bring the prince back by force, if need be.
Good-bye, Zina, darling child. Don’t be afraid, and don’t look sad, dear;
please don’t! It will be all well, nay, _gloriously_ well! Good-bye,
good-bye!”

Maria Alexandrovna made the sign of the Cross over Zina, and dashed out of
the room. She stopped one moment at her looking-glass to see that all was
right, and then, in another minute, was seated in her carriage and
careering through the Mordasoff streets. Maria Alexandrovna lived in good
style, and her carriage was always in waiting at that hour in case of
need.

“No, no, my dears! it’s not for _you_ to outwit me,” she thought, as she
drove along. “Zina agrees; so half the work is done. Oh, Zina, Zina! so
your imagination is susceptible to pretty little visions, is it? and I
_did_ treat her to a pretty little picture. She was really touched at
last; and how lovely the child looked to-day! If I had her beauty I should
turn half Europe topsy-turvy. But wait a bit, it’s all right. Shakespeare
will fly away to another world when you’re a princess, my dear, and know a
few people. What does she know? Mordasoff and the tutor! And what a
princess she will make. I _love_ to see her pride and pluck. She looks at
you like any queen. And not to know her own good! However, she soon will.
Wait a bit; let this old fool die, and then the boy, and I’ll marry her to
a reigning prince yet! The only thing I’m afraid of is—haven’t I trusted
her too much? Didn’t I allow my feelings to run away with me too far? I am
anxious about her. I am anxious, anxious!”

Thus Maria Alexandrovna reflected as she drove along. She was a busy
woman, was Maria Alexandrovna.

Zina, left alone, continued her solitary walk up and down the room with
folded hands and thoughtful brow. She had a good deal to think of! Over
and over again she repeated, “It’s time—it’s time—oh, it’s time!” What did
this ejaculation mean? Once or twice tears glistened on her long silken
eyelashes, and she did not attempt to wipe them away.

Her mother worried herself in vain, as far as Zina was concerned; for her
daughter had quite made up her mind:—she was ready, come what might!

“Wait a bit!” said the widow to herself, as she picked her way out of her
hiding-place, after having observed and listened to the interview between
Zina and her mother. “And I was thinking of a wedding dress for myself; I
positively thought the prince would really come my way! So much for _my_
wedding dress—what a fool I was! Oho! Maria Alexandrovna—I’m a baggage, am
I—and a beggar;—and I took a bribe of two hundred roubles from you, did I?
And I didn’t spend it on expenses connected with your precious daughter’s
letter, did I? and break open a desk for your sake with my own hands! Yes,
madam; I’ll teach you what sort of a baggage Nastasia Petrovna is; both of
you shall know her a little better yet! Wait a bit!”

CHAPTER VII.

Maria Alexandrovna’s genius had conceived a great and daring project.

To marry her daughter to a rich man, a prince, and a cripple; to marry her
secretly, to take advantage of the senile feebleness of her guest, to
marry her daughter to this old man _burglariously_, as her enemies would
call it,—was not only a daring, it was a downright audacious, project.

Of course, in case of success, it would be a profitable undertaking
enough; but in the event of _non_-success, what an ignominious position
for the authors of such a failure.

Maria Alexandrovna knew all this, but she did not despair. She had been
through deeper mire than this, as she had rightly informed Zina.

Undoubtedly all this looked rather too like a robbery on the high road to
be altogether pleasant; but Maria Alexandrovna did not dwell much on this
thought. She had one very simple but very pointed notion on the subject:
namely, this—“_once married they can’t be unmarried again_.”

It was a simple, but very pleasant reflection, and the very thought of it
gave Maria Alexandrovna a tingling sensation in all her limbs. She was in
a great state of agitation, and sat in her carriage as if on pins and
needles. She was anxious to begin the fray: her grand plan of operations
was drawn up; but there were thousands of small details to be settled, and
these must depend upon circumstances. She was not agitated by fear of
failure—oh dear, no! all she minded was delay! she feared the delay and
obstructions that might be put in her way by the Mordasoff ladies, whose
pretty ways she knew so well! She was well aware that probably at this
moment the whole town knew all about her present intentions, though she
had not revealed them to a living soul. She had found out by painful
experience that nothing, not the most secret event, could happen in her
house in the morning but it was known at the farthest end of the town by
the evening.

Of course, no anticipation, no presentiment, deterred or deceived Maria
Alexandrovna: she might feel such sensations at times, but she despised
them. Now, this is what had happened in the town this morning, and of
which our heroine was as yet only partly informed. About mid-day, that is,
just three hours after the prince’s arrival at Mordasoff, extraordinary
rumours began to circulate about the town.

Whence came they? Who spread them? None could say; but they spread like
wild-fire. Everyone suddenly began to assure his neighbour that Maria
Alexandrovna had engaged her daughter to the prince; that Mosgliakoff had
notice to quit, and that all was settled and signed, and the penniless,
twenty-three-year-old Zina was to be the princess.

Whence came this rumour? Could it be that Maria Alexandrovna was so
thoroughly known that her friends could anticipate her thoughts and
actions under any given circumstances?

The fact is, every inhabitant of a provincial town lives under a glass
case; there is no possibility of his keeping anything whatever secret from
his honourable co-dwellers in the place. They know _everything_; they know
it, too, better than he does himself. Every provincial person should be a
psychologist by nature; and that is why I have been surprised, often and
often, to observe when I am among provincials that there is not a great
number of psychologists—as one would expect,—but an infinite number of
dreadful asses. However, this a digression.

The rumour thus spread, then, was a thunder-like and startling shock to
the Mordasoff system. Such a marriage—a marriage with this prince—appeared
to all to be a thing so very desirable, so brilliant, that the strange
side of the affair had not seemed to strike anyone as yet!

One more circumstance must be noticed. Zina was even more detested in the
place than her mother; why, I don’t know. Perhaps her beauty was the prime
cause. Perhaps, too, it was that Maria Alexandrovna was, as it were, one
of themselves, a fruit of their own soil: if she was to go away she might
even be missed; she kept the place alive more or less—it might be dull
without her! But with Zina it was quite a different matter: she lived more
in the clouds than in the town of Mordasoff. She was no company for these
good people; she could not pair with them. Perhaps she bore herself
towards them, unconsciously though, too haughtily.

And now this same Zina, this haughty girl, about whom there were certain
scandalous stories afloat, this same Zina was to become a millionaire, a
princess, and a woman of rank and eminence!

In a couple of years she might marry again, some duke, perhaps, or a
general, maybe a Governor; their own Governor was a widower, and very fond
of the ladies! Then she would be the first lady of their province! Why,
the very thought of such a thing would be intolerable: in fact, this
rumour of Zina’s marriage with the prince aroused more irritation in
Mordasoff than any other piece of gossip within the memory of man!

People told each other that it was a sin and a shame, that the prince was
crazy, that the old man was being deceived, caught, robbed—anything you
like; that the prince must be saved from the bloodthirsty talons he had
floundered into; that the thing was simply robbery, immorality. And why
were any others worse than Zina? Why should not somebody else marry the
prince?

Maria Alexandrovna only guessed at all this at present—but that was quite
enough. She knew that the whole town would rise up and use all and every
means to defeat her ends. Why, they had tried to “confiscate” the prince
already; she would have to retrieve him by force, and if she should
succeed in luring or forcing him back now, she could not keep him tied to
her apron-strings for ever. Again, what was to prevent this whole troop of
Mordasoff gossips from coming _en masse_ to her salon, under such a
plausible plea, too, that she would not be able to turn them out. She knew
well that if kicked out of the door these good people would get in at the
window—a thing which had actually happened before now at Mordasoff.

In a word, there was not an hour, not a moment to be lost; and meanwhile
things were not even begun. A brilliant idea now struck Maria
Alexandrovna. We shall hear what this idea was in its proper place,
meanwhile I will only state that my heroine dashed through the streets of
Mordasoff, looking like a threatening storm-cloud as she swept along full
of the stern and implacable resolve that the prince should come back if
she had to drag him, and fight for him; and that all Mordasoff might fall
in ruins but she should have her way!

Her first move was successful—it could not have been more so.

She chanced to meet the prince in the street, and carried him off to
dinner with her.

If my reader wishes to know _how_ this feat was accomplished with such a
circle of enemies about and around her, and how she managed to make such a
fool of Mrs. Antipova, then I must be allowed to point out that such a
question is an insult to Maria Alexandrovna. As if _she_ were not capable
of outwitting any Antipova that ever breathed!

She simply “arrested” the prince at her rival’s very door, as he alighted
there with Mosgliakoff, in spite of the latter’s terror of a scandal, and
in spite of everything else; and she popped the old man into the carriage
beside her. Of course the prince made very little resistance, and as
usual, forgot all about the episode in a couple of minutes, and was as
happy as possible.

At dinner he was hilarious to a degree; he made jokes and fun, and told
stories which had no ends, or which he tacked on to ends belonging to
other stories, without remarking the fact.

He had had three glasses of champagne at lunch at Natalie Dimitrievna’s.
He now took more wine, and his old head whirled with it. Maria
Alexandrovna plied him well. The dinner was very good: the mistress of the
house kept the company alive with most bewitching airs and manners,—at
least so it should have been, but all excepting herself and the prince
were terribly dull on this occasion. Zina sat silent and grave.
Mosgliakoff was clearly off his feed: he was very thoughtful; and as this
was unusual Maria Alexandrovna was considerably anxious about him. The
widow looked cross and cunning; she continually made mysterious signs to
Mosgliakoff on the sly; but the latter took no notice of them.

If the mistress herself had not been so amiable and bewitching, the dinner
party might have been mistaken for a lunch at a funeral!

Meanwhile Maria Alexandrovna’s condition of mind was in reality excited
and agitated to a terrible degree. Zina alone terrified her by her tragic
look and tearful eyes. And there was another difficulty—for that accursed
Mosgliakoff would probably sit about and get in the way of business! One
could not well set about it with him in the room!

So, Maria Alexandrovna rose from the table in some agitation.

But what was her amazement, her joyful surprise, when Mosgliakoff came up
to her after dinner, of his own accord, and suddenly and most unexpectedly
informed her that he must—to his infinite regret—leave the house on
important business for a short while.

“Why, where are you going to?” she asked, with great show of regret.

“Well, you see,” began Mosgliakoff, rather disconcerted and uncomfortable,
“I have to—_may_ I come to you for advice?”

“What is it—what is it?”

“Why, you see, my godfather Borodueff—you know the man; I met him in the
street to-day, and he is dreadfully angry with me, says I am grown so
_proud_, that though I have been in Mordasoff three times I have never
shown my nose inside his doors. He asked me to come in for a cup of tea at
five—it’s four now. He has no children, you know,—and he is worth a
million of roubles—_more_, they say; and if I marry Zina—you see,—and he’s
seventy years old now!”

“Why, my good boy, of course, of course!—what are you thinking of? You
must not neglect that sort of thing—go at once, of course! I _thought_ you
looked preoccupied at dinner. You ought to have gone this morning and
shewn him that you cared for him, and so on. Oh, you boys, you boys!”
cried Maria Alexandrovna with difficulty concealing her joy.

“Thanks, thanks, Maria Alexandrovna! you’ve made a man of me again! I
declare I quite feared telling you—for I know you didn’t think much of the
connection.—He is a common sort of old fellow, I know! So good-bye—my
respects to Zina, and apologies—I must be off, of course I shall be back
soon!”

“Good-bye—take my blessing with you; say something polite to the old man
for me; I have long changed my opinion of him; I have grown to like the
real old Russian style of the man. _Au revoir, mon ami, au revoir!_”

“Well, it _is_ a mercy that the devil has carried him off, out of the
way!” she reflected, flushing with joy as Paul took his departure out of
the room. But Paul had only just reached the hall and was putting on his
fur coat when to him appeared—goodness knows whence—the widow, Nastasia
Petrovna. She had been waiting for him.

“Where are you going to?” she asked, holding him by the arm.

“To my godfather Borodueff’s—a rich old fellow; I want him to leave me
money. Excuse me—I’m in rather a hurry!”

Mosgliakoff was in a capital humour!

“Oh! then say good-bye to your betrothed!” remarked the widow, cuttingly.

“And why ‘good-bye’?”

“Why; you think she’s yours already, do you? and they are going to marry
her to the prince! I heard them say so myself!”

“To the prince? Oh, come now, Nastasia Petrovna!”

“Oh, it’s not a case of ’come now’ at all! Would you like to see and hear
it for yourself? Put down your coat, and come along here,—this way!”

“Excuse me, Nastasia Petrovna, but I don’t understand what you are driving
at!”

“Oh! you’ll understand fast enough if you just bend down here and listen!
The comedy is probably just beginning!”

“What comedy?”

“Hush! don’t talk so loud! The comedy of humbugging _you_. This morning,
when you went away with the prince, Maria Alexandrovna spent a whole hour
talking Zina over into marrying the old man! She told her that nothing was
easier than to lure the prince into marrying her; and all sorts of other
things that were enough to make one sick! Zina agreed. You should have
heard the pretty way in which _you_ were spoken of! They think you simply
a fool! Zina said plump out that she would never marry you! Listen now,
listen!”

“Why—why—it would be most godless cunning,” Paul stammered, looking
sheepishly into Nastasia’s eyes.

“Well, just you listen—you’ll hear that, and more besides!”

“But how am I to listen?”

“Here, bend down here. Do you see that keyhole!”

“Oh! but, Nastasia Petrovna, I can’t eavesdrop, you know!”

“Oh, nonsense, nonsense! Put your pride in your pocket! You’ve come, and
you must listen now!”

“Well, at all events——”

“Oh! if you can’t bear to be an eavesdropper, let it alone, and be made a
fool of! One goes out of one’s way solely out of pity for you, and you
must needs make difficulties! What is it to me? I’m not doing this for
myself! _I_ shall leave the house before night, in any case!”

Paul, steeling his heart, bent to the keyhole.

His pulses were raging and throbbing. He did not realise what was going
on, or what he was doing, or where he was.

CHAPTER VIII.

“So you were very gay, prince, at Natalia Dimitrievna’s?” asked Maria
Alexandrovna, surveying the battlefield before her; she was anxious to
begin the conversation as innocently as possible; but her heart beat loud
with hope and agitation.

After dinner the Prince had been carried off to the salon, where he was
first received in the morning. Maria Alexandrovna prided herself on this
room, and always used it on state occasions.

The old man, after his six glasses of champagne, was not very steady on
his legs; but he talked away all the more, for the same reason.

Surveying the field of battle before the fray, Maria Alexandrovna had
observed with satisfaction that the voluptuous old man had already begun
to regard Zina with great tenderness, and her maternal heart beat high
with joy.

“Oh! ch—charming—very gay indeed!” replied the prince, “and, do you know,
Nat—alia Dimitrievna is a wo—wonderful woman, a ch—charming woman!”

Howsoever busy with her own high thoughts and exalted ideas, Maria
Alexandrovna’s heart waxed wrathful to hear such a loud blast of praise on
her rival’s account.

“Oh! Prince,” she began, with flashing eyes, “if Natalia Dimitrievna is a
charming woman in your eyes, then I really don’t know _what_ to think!
After such a statement, dear Prince, you must not claim to know society
here—no, no!”

“Really! You sur—pr—prise me!”

“I assure you—I assure you, _mon cher_ Prince! Listen Zina, I must just
tell the prince that absurd story about what Natalia Dimitrievna did when
she was here last week. Dearest prince, I am not a scandal-monger, but I
must, I really _must_ tell you this, if only to make you laugh, and to
show you a living picture, as it were, of what people are like in this
place! Well, last week this Natalia Dimitrievna came to call upon me.
Coffee was brought in, and I had to leave the room for a moment—I forget
why—at all events, I went out. Now, I happened to have remarked how much
sugar there was in the silver sugar basin; it was quite full. Well, I came
back in a few minutes—looked at the sugar basin, and!——three lumps—three
little wretched lumps at the very bottom of the basin, prince!—and she was
all alone in the room, mind! Now that woman has a large house of her own,
and lots of money! Of course this is merely a funny story—but you can
judge from this what sort of people one has to deal with here!”

“N—no! you don’t mean it!” said the prince, in real astonishment. “What a
gr—eedy woman! Do you mean to say she ate it all up?”

“There, prince, and that’s your ‘charming woman!’ What do you think of
_that_ nice little bit of lady-like conduct? I think I should have died of
shame if I had ever allowed myself to do such a dirty thing as that!”

“Ye—yes, ye—yes! but, do you know, she is a real ‘_belle femme_’ all the
same!”

“What! Natalia Dimitrievna? My dear prince; why, she is a mere tub of a
woman! Oh! prince, prince! what have you said? I expected far better taste
of _you_, prince!”

“Ye—yes, tub—tub, of course! but she’s a n—nice figure, a nice figure! And
the girl who danced—oh! a nice figure too, a very nice figure of a
wo—woman!”

“What, Sonia? Why she’s a mere child, prince? She’s only thirteen years
old.”

“Ye—yes, ye—yes, of course; but her figure de—velops very fast—charming,
charming! And the other da—ancing girl, she’s de—veloping too—nicely:
she’s dirty rather—she might have washed her hands, but very at—tractive,
charming!” and the prince raised his glass again and hungrily inspected
Zina. “_Mais quelle charmante personne!_—what a lovely girl!” he muttered,
melting with satisfaction.

“Zina, play us something, or—better still, sing us a song! How she sings,
prince! she’s an artiste—a real artiste; oh if you only knew, dear
prince,” continued Maria Alexandrovna, in a half whisper, as Zina rose to
go to the piano with her stately but quiet gait and queenly composure,
which evidently told upon the old man; “if you only knew what a daughter
that is to me! how she can love; how tender, how affectionate she is to
me! what taste she has, what a heart!”

“Ye—yes! ye—yes! taste. And do you know, I have only known one woman in
all my life who could compare with her in love—liness. It was the late
C—ountess Nainsky: she died thirty years ago, a w—onderful woman, and her
beauty was quite sur—passing. She married her co—ook at last.”

“Her cook, prince?”

“Ye—yes, her cook, a Frenchman, abroad. She bought him a count’s title
a—broad; he was a good-looking fellow enough, with little moustaches——”

“And how did they get on?”

“Oh, very well indeed; however, they p—arted very soon; they quarrelled
about some sa—sauce. He robbed her—and bo—olted.”

“Mamma, what shall I play?” asked Zina.

“Better sing us something, Zina. _How_ she sings, prince! Do you like
music?”

“Oh, ye—yes! charming, charming. I love music pass—sionately. I knew
Beethoven, abroad.”

“Knew Beethoven!” cried Maria Alexandrovna, ecstatically. “Imagine, Zina,
the prince knew Beethoven! Oh, prince, did you really, _really_ know the
great Beethoven?”

“Ye—yes, we were great friends, Beet—hoven and I; he was always taking
snuff—such a funny fellow!”

“What, Beethoven?”

“Yes, Beethoven; or it may have been some other German fellow—I don’t
know; there are a great many Germans there. I forget.”

“Well, what shall I sing, mamma?” asked Zina again.

“Oh Zina darling, do sing us that lovely ballad all about knights, you
know, and the girl who lived in a castle and loved a troubadour. Don’t you
know! Oh, prince, how I do _love_ all those knightly stories and songs,
and the castles! Oh! the castles, and life in the middle ages, and the
troubadours, and heralds and all. Shall I accompany you, Zina? Sit down
near here, prince. Oh! those castles, those castles!”

“Ye—yes, ye—yes, castles; I love ca—astles too!” observed the prince,
staring at Zina all the while with the whole of his one eye, as if he
would like to eat her up at once. “But, good heavens,” he cried, “that
song! I know that s—song. I heard that song years—years ago! Oh! how that
song reminds me of so—omething. Oh, oh.”

I will not attempt to describe the ecstatic state of the prince while Zina
sang.

She warbled an old French ballad which had once been all the fashion. Zina
sang it beautifully; her lovely face, her glorious eyes, her fine sweet
contralto voice, all this went to the prince’s heart at once; and her dark
thick hair, her heaving bosom, her proud, beautiful, stately figure as she
sat at the piano, and played and sang, quite finished him. He never took
his eyes off her, he panted with excitement. His old heart, partially
revivified with champagne, with the music, and with awakening
recollections (and who is there who has no beloved memories of the past?),
his old heart beat faster and faster. It was long since it had last beat
in this way. He was ready to fall on his knees at her feet, when Zina
stopped singing, and he was almost in tears with various emotions.

“Oh, my charming, charming child,” he cried, putting his lips to her
fingers, “you have ra—vished me quite—quite! I remember all now. Oh
charming, charming child!——”

The poor prince could not finish his sentence.

Maria Alexandrovna felt that the moment had arrived for her to make a
move.

“Why, _why_ do you bury yourself alive as you do, prince?” she began,
solemnly. “So much taste, so much vital energy, so many rich gifts of the
mind and soul—and to hide yourself in solitude all your days; to flee from
mankind, from your friends. Oh, it is unpardonable! Prince, bethink
yourself. Look up at life again with open eyes. Call up your dear memories
of the past; think of your golden youth—your golden, careless, happy days
of youth! Wake them, wake them from the dead, Prince! and wake yourself,
too; and recommence life among men and women and society! Go abroad—to
Italy, to Spain, oh, to Spain, Prince! You must have a guide, a heart that
will love and respect, and sympathize with you! You have friends; summon
them about you! Give the word, and they will rally round you in crowds! I
myself will be the first to throw up everything, and answer to your cry! I
remembered our old friendship, my Prince; and I will sacrifice husband,
home, all, and follow you. Yes, and were I but young and lovely, like my
daughter here, I would be your fellow, your friend, your _wife_, if you
said but the word!”

“And I am convinced that you were a most charming creature in your day,
too!” said the prince, blowing his nose violently. His eyes were full of
tears.

“We live again in our children,” said Maria Alexandrovna, with great
feeling. “I, too, have my guardian angel, and that is this child, my
daughter, Prince, the partner of my heart and of all my thoughts! She has
refused seven offers because she is unwilling to leave me! So that she
will go too, when you accompany me abroad.”

“In that case, I shall certainly go abroad,” cried the prince with
animation. “As—suredly I shall go! And if only I could ve—venture to
hope—oh! you be—witching child, charming, be—witching child!” And the
prince recommenced to kiss Zina’s fingers. The poor old man was evidently
meditating going down on his knees before her.

“But, Prince,” began Maria Alexandrovna again, feeling that the
opportunity had arrived for another display of eloquence. “But, Prince,
you say, ‘If only I could flatter myself into indulging any hope!’ Why,
what a strange man you are, Prince. Surely you do not suppose that you are
unworthy the flattering attention of _any_ woman! It is not only youth
that constitutes true beauty. Remember that you are, so to speak, a chip
of the tree of aristocracy. You are a representative of all the most
knightly, most refined taste and culture and manners. Did not Maria fall
in love with the old man Mazeppa? I remember reading that Lauzun, that
fascinating marquis of the court of Louis (I forget which), when he was an
old, bent and bowed man, won the heart of one of the youngest and most
beautiful women about the court.

“And who told you you are an old man? Who taught you that nonsense? Do men
like you ever grow old? You, with your wealth of taste and wit, and
animation and vital energy and brilliant manners! Just you make your
appearance at some watering-place abroad with a young wife on your
arm—some lovely young girl like my Zina, for instance—of course I merely
mention her as an example, nothing more,—and you will see at once what a
colossal effect you will produce: you, a scion of our aristocracy; she a
beauty among beauties! You will lead her triumphantly on your arm; she,
perhaps, will sing in some brilliant assemblage; you will delight the
company with your wit. Why, all the people of the place will crowd to see
you! All Europe will ring with your renown, for every newspaper and
feuilleton at the Waters will be full of you. And yet you say, ‘If I could
but _venture_ to _hope_,’ indeed!”

“The feuilletons! yes—ye—yes, and the newspapers,” said the prince,
growing more and more feeble with love, but not understanding half of
Maria Alexandrovna’s tall talk. “But, my child, if you’re not tired, do
repeat that song which you have just sung so cha—armingly once more.”

“Oh! but, Prince, she has other lovely songs, still prettier ones; don’t
you remember _L’Hirondelle_? You must have heard it, haven’t you?”

“Ye—yes, I remember it; at least I’ve for—gotten it. No, no! the one you
have just sung. I don’t want the Hir—ondelle! I want that other song,”
whined the prince, just like any child.

Zina sang again.

This time the prince could not contain himself; he fell on his knees at
her feet, he cried, he sobbed:

“Oh, my beautiful _chatelaine_!” he cried in his shaky old voice—shaky
with old age and emotion combined. “Oh, my charming, charming
_chatelaine_! oh, my dear child! You have re—minded me of so much that is
long, long passed! I always thought then that things must be fairer in the
future than in the present. I used to sing duets with the vis—countess in
this very ballad! And now, oh! I don’t know what to do, I don’t know
_what_ to do!”

The prince panted and choked as he spoke; his tongue seemed to find it
difficult to move; some of his words were almost unintelligible. It was
clear that he was in the last stage of emotional excitement. Maria
Alexandrovna immediately poured oil on the fire.

“Why, Prince, I do believe you are falling in love with my Zina,” she
cried, feeling that the moment was a solemn one.

The prince’s reply surpassed her fondest expectations.

“I am madly in love with her!” cried the old man, all animated, of a
sudden. He was still on his knees, and he trembled with excitement as he
spoke. “I am ready to give my life for her! And if only I could hope, if
only I might have a little hope—I,—but, lift me up; I feel so weak. I—if
only she would give me the hope that I might offer her my heart, I—she
should sing ballads to me every day; and I could look at her, and look and
gaze and gaze at her.——Oh, my God! my God!”

“Prince, Prince! you are offering her your hand. You want to take her from
me, my Zina! my darling, my _ange_, my own dear child, Zina! No, Zina, no,
I can’t let you go! They must tear you from me, Zina. They must tear you
first from your mother’s arms!”

Maria Alexandrovna sprang to her daughter, and caught her up in a close
embrace, conscious, withal, of serious physical resistance on Zina’s part.
The fond mother was a little overdoing it.

Zina felt this with all her soul, and she looked on at the whole comedy
with inexpressible loathing.

However, she held her tongue, and that was all the fond mother required of
her.

“She has refused nine men because she will not leave me!” said Maria. “But
this time, I fear—my heart tells me that we are doomed to part! I noticed
just now how she looked at you, Prince. You have impressed her with your
aristocratic manner, with your refinement. Oh! Prince, you are going to
separate us—I feel it, I feel it!”

“I ad—ore her!” murmured the poor old man, still trembling like an
autumnal leaf.

“And you’ll consent to leave your mother!” cried Maria Alexandrovna,
throwing herself upon her daughter once more. Zina made haste to bring
this, to her, painful scene to an end. She stretched her pretty hand
silently to the prince, and even forced herself to smile. The prince
reverently took the little hand into his own, and covered it with kisses.

“I am only this mo—ment beginning to live,” he mutterred, in a voice that
seemed choking with rapture and ecstasy.

“Zina,” began Maria Alexandrovna, solemnly, “look well at this man! This
is the most honest and upright and noble man of all the men I know. He is
a knight of the middle ages! But she knows it, Prince, she knows it too
well; to my grief I say it. Oh! why did you come here? I am surrendering
my treasure to you—my angel! Oh! take care of her, Prince. Her mother
entreats you to watch over her. And what mother could blame my grief!”

“Enough, mamma! that’s enough,” said Zina, quietly.

“Protect her from all hurt and insult, Prince! Can I rely upon your sword
to flash in the face of the vile scandal-monger who dares to offend my
Zina?”

“Enough, mother, I tell you! am I——?”

“Ye—yes, ye—yes, it shall flash all right,” said the prince. “But I want
to be married now, at once. I—I’m only just learning what it is to live. I
want to send off to Donchanovo at once. I want to send for some di—iamonds
I have there. I want to lay them at her feet.——I——”

“What noble ardour! what ecstasy of love! what noble, generous feelings
you have, Prince!” cried Maria Alexandrovna. “And you could bury
yourself—_bury_ yourself, far from the world and society! I shall remind
you of this a thousand times! I go mad when I think of that _hellish_
woman.”

“What could I do? I was fri—ghtened!” stammered the prince in a whining
voice: “they wanted to put me in a lu—unatic asylum! I was dreadfully
alarmed!”

“In a lunatic asylum? Ah, the scoundrels! oh, the inhuman wretches! Ah,
the low cunning of them! Yes, Prince; I had heard of it. But the lunacy
was in these people, not in _you_. Why, _why_ was it—what for?”

“I don’t know myself, what it was for,” replied the poor old man, feebly
sinking into his chair; “I was at a ball, don’t you know, and told some
an—ecdote or other and they didn’t like it; and so they got up a scandal
and a ro—ow.”

“Surely that was not all, Prince?”

“No;—the—I was playing cards with Prince Paul De—mentieff, and I was
cleared out: you see, I had two kings and three quee—ns, three kings and
two qu—eens; or I should say—one king—and some queens—I know I had——.”

“And it was for this? Oh, the hellish inhumanity of some people! You are
weeping, Prince; but be of good cheer—it is all over now! Now I shall be
at hand, dearest Prince,—I shall not leave Zina; and we shall see which of
them will dare to say a word to you, _then_! And do you know, my Prince,
your marriage will expose them! it will shame them! They will see that you
are a man—that a lovely girl like our Zina would never have married a
madman! You shall raise your head proudly now, and look them straight in
the face!”

“Ye—yes; I shall look them straight in the f—ace!” murmured the prince,
slowly shutting his eyes.

Maria Alexandrovna saw that her work was done: the prince was tired out
with love and emotion. She was only wasting her eloquence!

“Prince, you are disturbed and tired, I see you are!” she said; “you must
rest, you must take a good rest after so much agitation,” she added,
bending over him maternally.

“Ye—yes, ye—yes; I should like to lie down a little,” said the old man.

“Of course, of course! you must lie down! those agitating scenes——stop, I
will escort you myself, and arrange your couch with my own hands! Why are
you looking so hard at that portrait, Prince? That is my mother’s picture;
she was an angel—not a woman! Oh, why is she not among us at this joyful
moment!”

“Ye—yes; charming—charming! Do you know, I had a mother too,—a princess,
and imagine! a re—markably, a re—markably fat woman she was; but that is
not what I was going to say,——I—I feel a little weak, and——Au revoir, my
charming child—to-morrow—to-day—I will—I—I—Au revoir, au revoir!” Here the
poor old fellow tried to kiss his hand, but slipped, and nearly fell over
the threshold of the door.

“Take care, dear Prince—take care! lean on my arm!” cried Maria
Alexandrovna.

“Charming, ch—arming!” he muttered, as he left the room. “I am only now
le—learning to live!”

Zina was left alone.

A terrible oppression weighed down her heart. She felt a sensation of
loathing which nearly suffocated her. She despised herself—her cheeks
burned. With folded hands, and teeth biting hard into her lips, she stood
in one spot, motionless. The tears of shame streamed from her eyes,——and
at this moment the door opened, and Paul Mosgliakoff entered the room!

CHAPTER IX.

He had heard all—_all_.

He did not actually enter the room, but stood at the door, pale with
excitement and fury. Zina looked at him in amazement.

“So that’s the sort of person you are!” he cried panting. “At last I have
found you out, have I?”

“Found me out?” repeated Zina, looking at him as though he were a madman.
Suddenly her eyes flashed with rage. “How dare you address me like that?”
she cried, advancing towards him.

“I have heard all!” said Mosgliakoff solemnly, but involuntarily taking a
step backwards.

“You heard? I see—you have been eavesdropping!” cried Zina, looking at him
with disdain.

“Yes, I have been eavesdropping! Yes—I consented to do a mean action, and
my reward is that I have found out that you, too, are——I don’t know how to
express to you what I think you!” he replied, looking more and more timid
under Zina’s eyes.

“And supposing that you _have_ heard all: what right have you to blame me?
What right have you to speak to me so insolently, in any case?”

“_I!_—_I?_ what right have _I_? and _you_ can ask me this? You are going
to marry this prince, and I have no right to say a word! Why, you gave me
your promise—is that nothing?”

“When?”

“How, when?”

“Did not I tell you that morning, when you came to me with your
sentimental nonsense—did I not tell you that I could give you no decided
answer?”

“But you did not reject me; you did not send me away. I see—you kept me
hanging in reserve, in case of need! You lured me into your net! I see, I
see it all!”

An expression of pain flitted over Zina’s careworn face, as though someone
had suddenly stabbed her to the heart; but she mastered her feelings.

“If I didn’t turn you out of the house,” she began deliberately and very
clearly, though her voice had a scarcely perceptible tremor in it, “I
refrained from such a course purely out of pity. You begged me yourself to
postpone, to give you time, not to say you ‘No,’ to study you better, and
‘then,’ you said, ‘then, when you know what a fine fellow I am, perhaps
you will not refuse me!’ These were your own words, or very like them, at
the very beginning of your courtship!—you cannot deny them! And now you
dare to tell me that I ‘lured you into my net,’ just as though you did not
notice my expression of loathing when you made your appearance this
morning! You came a fortnight sooner than I expected you, and I did not
hide my disgust; on the contrary, I made it evident—you must have noticed
it—I know you did; because you asked me whether I was angry because you
had come sooner than you promised! Let me tell you that people who do not,
and do not _care_ to, hide their loathing for a man can hardly be accused
of luring that man into their net! You dare to tell me that I was keeping
you in reserve! Very well; my answer to that is, that I judged of you like
this: ‘Though he may not be endowed with much intellect, still he may turn
out to be a good enough fellow; and if so, it might be possible to marry
him.’ However, being persuaded, now, that you are a fool, and a
_mischievous_ fool into the bargain,—having found out this fact, to my
great joy,—it only remains for me now to wish you every happiness and a
pleasant journey. Good-bye!”

With these words Zina turned her back on him, and deliberately made for
the door.

Mosgliakoff, seeing that all was lost, boiled over with fury.

“Oh! so I’m a fool!” he yelled; “I’m a fool, am I? Very well, good-bye!
But before I go, the whole town shall know of this! They shall all hear
how you and your mother made the old man drunk, and then swindled him! I
shall let the whole world know it! You shall see what Mosgliakoff can do!”

Zina trembled and stopped, as though to answer; but on reflection, she
contented herself by shrugging her shoulders; glanced contemptuously at
Mosgliakoff, and left the room, banging the door after her.

At this moment Maria Alexandrovna made her appearance. She heard
Mosgliakoff’s exclamation, and, divining at once what had happened,
trembled with terror. Mosgliakoff still in the house, and near the prince!
Mosgliakoff about to spread the news all over the town! At this moment,
when secrecy, if only for a short time, was essential! But Maria
Alexandrovna was quick at calculations: she thought, with an eagle flight
of the mind, over all the circumstances of the case, and her plan for the
pacification of Mosgliakoff was ready in an instant!

“What is it, _mon ami_?” she said, entering the room, and holding out her
hand to him with friendly warmth.

“How—‘_mon ami_?’ ” cried the enraged Mosgliakoff. “_Mon ami_, indeed! the
moment after you have abused and reviled me like a pickpocket! No, no! Not
quite so green, my good lady! I’m not to be so easily imposed upon again!”

“I am sorry, extremely sorry, to see you in such a _strange_ condition of
mind, Paul Alexandrovitch! What expressions you use! You do not take the
trouble to choose your words before ladies—oh, fie!”

“Before ladies? Ho ho! You—you are—you are anything you like—but not a
lady!” yelled Mosgliakoff.

I don’t quite know what he meant, but it was something very terrible, you
may be sure!

Maria Alexandrovna looked benignly in his face:

“Sit down!” she said, sorrowfully, showing him a chair, the same that the
old prince had reclined in a quarter of an hour before.

“But listen, _will_ you listen, Maria Alexandrovna? You look at me just as
though you were not the least to blame; in fact, as though _I_ were the
guilty party! Really, Maria Alexandrovna, this is a little _too_ much of a
good thing! No human being can stand that sort of thing, Maria
Alexandrovna! You must be aware of that fact!”

“My dear friend,” replied Maria Alexandrovna—“you will allow me to
continue to call you by that name, for you have no better friend than I
am!—my friend, you are suffering—you are amazed and bewildered; your heart
is sore, and therefore the tone of your remarks to me is perhaps not
surprising. But I have made up my mind to open my heart to you, especially
as I am, perhaps, in some degree to blame before you. Sit down; let us
talk it over!”

Maria Alexandrovna’s voice was tender to a sickly extent. Her face showed
the pain she was suffering. The amazed Mosgliakoff sat down beside her in
the arm-chair.

“You hid somewhere, and listened, I suppose?” she began, looking
reproachfully into his face.

“Yes I did, of course I did; and a good thing too! What a fool I should
have looked if I hadn’t! At all events now I know what you have been
plotting against me!” replied the injured man, rudely; encouraging and
supporting himself by his own fury.

“And you—and you—with your principles, and with your bringing up, could
condescend to such an action—Oh, oh!”

Mosgliakoff jumped up.

“Maria Alexandrovna, this is a little too much!” he cried. “Consider what
_you_ condescend to do, with _your_ principles, and _then_ judge of other
people.”

“One more question,” she continued, without replying to his outburst: “who
recommended you to be an eavesdropper; who told you anything; who is the
spy here? That’s what I wish to know!”

“Oh, excuse me; that I shall _not_ tell you!”

“Very well; I know already. I said, Paul, that I was in some degree to
blame before you. But if you look into the matter you will find that if I
am to blame it is solely in consequence of my anxiety to do you a good
turn!”

“_What?_ a good turn—_me_? No, no, madam! I assure you I am not to be
caught again! I’m not quite such a fool!”

He moved so violently in his arm-chair that it shook again.

“Now, do be cool, if you can, my good friend. Listen to me attentively,
and you will find that what I say is only the bare truth. In the first
place I was anxious to inform you of all that has just taken place, in
which case you would have learned everything, down to the smallest detail,
without being obliged to descend to eavesdropping! If I did not tell you
all before, it was simply because the whole matter was in an embryo
condition in my mind. It was then quite possible that what _has_ happened
would never happen. You see, I am quite open with you.

“In the second place, do not blame my daughter. She loves you to
distraction; and it was only by the exercise of my utmost influence that I
persuaded her to drop you, and accept the prince’s offer.”

“I have just had the pleasure of receiving convincing proof of her ‘love
to distraction!’ ” remarked Mosgliakoff, ironically and bitterly.

“Very well. But how did you speak to _her_? As a lover should speak?
Again, ought _any_ man of respectable position and tone to speak like
that? You insulted and wounded her!”

“Never mind about my ‘tone’ now! All I can say is that this morning, when
I went away with the prince, in spite of both of you having been as sweet
as honey to me before, you reviled me behind my back like a pickpocket!
_I_ know all about it, you see!”

“Yes, from the same dirty source, I suppose?” said Maria Alexandrovna,
smiling disdainfully. “Yes, Paul, I _did_ revile you: I pitched into you
considerably, and I admit it frankly. But it was simply that I was _bound_
to blacken you before her. Why? Because, as I have said, I required her to
consent to leave you, and this consent was so difficult to tear from her!
Short-sighted man that you are! If she had not loved you, why should I
have required so to blacken your character? Why should I have been obliged
to take this extreme step? Oh! you don’t know all! I was forced to use my
fullest maternal authority in order to erase you from her heart; and with
all my influence and skill I only succeeded in erasing your dear image
superficially and partially! If you saw and heard all just now, it cannot
have escaped you that Zina did not once, by either word or gesture,
encourage or confirm my words to the prince? Throughout the whole scene
she said not one word. She sang, but like an automaton! Her whole soul was
in anguish, and at last, out of pity for her, I took the prince away. I am
sure, she cried, when I left her alone! When you entered the room you must
have observed tears in her eyes?”

Mosgliakoff certainly did recall the fact that when he rushed into the
room Zina was crying.

“But you—_you_—why were _you_ so against me, Maria Alexandrovna?” he
cried. “Why did you revile me and malign me, as you admit you did?”

“Ah, now that’s quite a different question. Now, if you had only asked me
reasonably at the beginning, you should have had your answer long ago!
Yes, you are right. It was I, and I alone, who did it all. Do not think of
Zina in the matter. Now, _why_ did I do it? I reply, in the first place,
for Zina’s sake. The prince is rich, influential, has great connections,
and in marrying him Zina will make a brilliant match. Very well; then if
the prince dies—as perhaps he will die soon, for we are all mortal,—Zina
is still young, a widow, a princess, and probably very rich. Then she can
marry whom she pleases; she may make another brilliant match if she likes.
But of course she will marry the man she loves, and loved before, the man
whose heart she wounded by accepting the prince. Remorse alone would be
enough to make her marry the man whom she had loved and so deeply
injured!”

“Hem!” said Paul, gazing at his boots thoughtfully.

“In the second place,” continued Maria, “and I will put this shortly,
because, though you read a great deal of your beloved Shakespeare, and
extract his finest thoughts and ideals, yet you are very young, and
cannot, perhaps, apply what you read. You may not understand my feelings
in this matter: listen, however. _I_ am giving my Zina to this prince
partly for the prince’s own sake, because I wish to save him by this
marriage. We are old friends; he is the dearest and best of men, he is a
knightly, chivalrous gentleman, and he lives helpless and miserable in the
claws of that devil of a woman at Donchanovo! Heaven knows that I
persuaded Zina into this marriage by putting it to her that she would be
performing a great and noble action. I represented her as being the stay
and the comfort and the darling and the idol of a poor old man, who
probably would not live another year at the most! I showed her that thus
his last days should be made happy with love and light and friendship,
instead of wretched with fear and the society of a detestable woman. Oh!
do not blame Zina. She is guiltless. I am not—I admit it; for if there
have been calculations it is I who have made them! But I calculated for
her, Paul; for her, not myself! I have outlived my time; I have thought
but for my child, and what mother could blame me for this?” Tears sparkled
in the fond mother’s eyes. Mosgliakoff listened in amazement to all this
eloquence, winking his eyes in bewilderment.

“Yes, yes, of course! You talk well, Maria Alexandrovna, but you
forget—you gave me your word, you encouraged me, you gave me my hopes; and
where am I now? I have to stand aside and look a fool!”

“But, my dear Paul, you don’t surely suppose that I have not thought of
you too! Don’t you see the huge, immeasurable gain to yourself in all
this? A gain so vast that I was bound in your interest to act as I did!”

“Gain for me! How so?” asked Paul, in the most abject state of confusion
and bewilderment.

“Gracious Heavens! do you mean to say you are really so simple and so
short-sighted as to be unable to see _that_?” cried Maria Alexandrovna,
raising her eyes to the ceiling in a pious manner. “Oh! youth, youth!
That’s what comes of steeping one’s soul in Shakespeare! You ask me, my
dear friend Paul, where is the gain to you in all this. Allow me to make a
little digression. Zina loves you—that is an undoubted fact. But I have
observed that at the same time, and in spite of her evident love, she is
not quite sure of your good feeling and devotion to her; and for this
reason she is sometimes cold and self-restrained in your presence. Have
you never observed this yourself, Paul?”

“Certainly; I did this very day; but go on, what do you deduce from that
fact?”

“There, you see! you have observed it yourself; then of course I am right.
She is not quite sure of the _lasting_ quality of your feeling for her! I
am a mother, and I may be permitted to read the heart of my child. Now,
then, supposing that instead of rushing into the room and reproaching,
vilifying, even _swearing_ at and insulting this sweet, pure, beautiful,
proud being, instead of hurling contempt and vituperation at her
head—supposing that instead of all this you had received the bad news with
composure, with tears of grief, maybe; perhaps even with despair—but at
the same time with noble composure of soul——”

“H’m!”

“No, no—don’t interrupt me! I wish to show you the picture as it is. Very
well, supposing, then, that you had come to her and said, ‘Zina, I love
you better than my life, but family considerations must separate us; I
understand these considerations—they are devised for your greater
happiness, and I dare not oppose them. Zina, I forgive you; be happy, if
you can!’—think what effect such noble words would have wrought upon her
heart!”

“Yes—yes, that’s all very true, I quite understand that much! but if I
_had_ said all this, I should have had to go all the same, without
satisfaction!”

“No, no, no! don’t interrupt me! I wish to show you the _whole_ picture in
all its detail, in order to impress you fully and satisfactorily. Very
well, then, imagine now that you meet her in society some time afterwards:
you meet perhaps at a ball—in the brilliant light of a ball-room, under
the soothing strains of music, and in the midst of worldly women and of
all that is gay and beautiful. You alone are sad—thoughtful—pale,—you lean
against some pillar (where you are visible, however!) and watch her. She
is dancing. You hear the strains of Strauss, and the wit and merriment
around you, but you are sad and wretched.

“What, think you, will Zina make of it? With what sort of eyes will she
gaze on you as you stand there? ‘And I could doubt this man!’ she will
think, ‘this man who sacrificed all, all, for my sake—even to the mortal
wounding of his heart!’ Of course the old love will awake in her bosom and
will swell with irresistible power!”

Maria Alexandrovna stopped to take breath. Paul moved violently from side
to side of his chair.

“Zina now goes abroad for the benefit of the prince’s health—to Italy—to
Spain,” she continued, “where the myrtle and the lemon tree grow, where
the sky is so blue, the beautiful Guadalquiver flows! to the land of love,
where none can live without loving; where roses and kisses—so to
speak—breathe in the very air around. You follow her—you sacrifice your
business, friends, everything, and follow her. And so your love grows and
increases with irresistible might. Of course that love is
irreproachable—innocent—you will languish for one another—you will meet
frequently; of course others will malign and vilify you both, and call
your love by baser names—but your love is innocent, as I have purposely
said; I am her mother—it is not for me to teach you evil, but good. At all
events the prince is not in the condition to keep a very sharp look-out
upon you; but if he did, as if there would be the slightest ground for
base suspicion? Well, the prince dies at last, and then, who will marry
Zina, if not yourself? You are so distant a relative of the prince’s that
there could be no obstacle to the match; you marry her—she is young still,
and rich. You are a grandee in an instant! you, too, are rich now! I will
take care that the prince’s will is made as it should be; and lastly,
Zina, now convinced of your loyalty and faithfulness, will look on you
hereafter as her hero, as her paragon of virtue and self-sacrifice! Oh!
you must be blind,—_blind_, not to observe and calculate your own profit
when it lies but a couple of strides from you, grinning at you, as it
were, and saying, ‘Here, I am yours, take me! Oh, Paul, Paul!’ ”

“Maria Alexandrovna!” cried Mosgliakoff, in great agitation and
excitement, “I see it all! I have been rude, and a fool, and a scoundrel
too!” He jumped up from his chair and tore his hair.

“Yes, and unbusinesslike, that’s the chief thing—unbusinesslike, and
blindly so!” added Maria Alexandrovna.

“I’m an ass! Maria Alexandrovna,” he cried in despair. “All is lost now,
and I loved her to madness!”

“Maybe all is not lost yet!” said this successful orator softly, and as
though thinking out some idea.

“Oh! if only it could be so! help me—teach me. Oh! save me, save me!”

Mosgliakoff burst into tears.

“My dear boy,” said Maria Alexandrovna, sympathetically, and holding out
her hand, “you acted impulsively, from the depth and heat of your
passion—in fact, out of your great love for her; you were in despair, you
had forgotten yourself; she must understand all that!”

“Oh! I love her madly! I am ready to sacrifice everything for her!” cried
Mosgliakoff.

“Listen! I will justify you before her.”

“Oh, Maria Alexandrovna!”

“Yes, I will. I take it upon myself! You come with me, and you shall tell
her exactly what I said!”

“Oh, how kind, how good you are! Can’t we go at once, Maria Alexandrovna?”

“Goodness gracious, no! What a very green hand you are, Paul! She’s far
too proud! she would take it as a new rudeness and impertinence! To-morrow
I shall arrange it all comfortably for you: but now, couldn’t you get out
of the way somewhere for a while, to that godfather of yours, for
instance? You could come back in the evening, if you pleased; but my
advice would be to stay away!”

“Yes, yes! I’ll go—of course! Good heavens, you’ve made a man of me
again!—Well, but look here—one more question:—What if the prince does
_not_ die so soon?”

“Oh, my dear boy, how delightfully naïve you are! On the contrary, we must
pray for his good health! We must wish with all our hearts for long life
to this dear, good, and chivalrous old man! I shall be the first to pray
day and night for the happiness of my beloved daughter! But alas! I fear
the prince’s case is hopeless; you see, they must visit the capital now,
to bring Zina out into society.—I dreadfully fear that all this may prove
fatal to him; however, we’ll pray, Paul, we can’t do more, and the rest is
in the hands of a kind Providence. You see what I mean? Very
well—good-bye, my dear boy, bless you! Be a man, and wait patiently—be a
man, that’s the chief thing! I never doubted your generosity of character;
but be brave—good-bye!” She pressed his hand warmly, and Mosgliakoff
walked out of the room on tip-toes.

“There goes _one_ fool, got rid of satisfactorily!” observed Maria
Alexandrovna to herself,—“but there are more behind——!”

At this moment the door opened, and Zina entered the room. She was paler
than usual, and her eyes were all ablaze.

“Mamma!” she said, “be quick about this business, or I shall not be able
to hold out. It is all so dirty and mean that I feel I must run out of the
house if it goes on. Don’t drive me to desperation! I warn you—don’t weary
me out—don’t weary me out!”

“Zina—what is it, my darling? You—you’ve been listening?” cried Maria
Alexandrovna, gazing intently and anxiously at her daughter.

“Yes, I have; but you need not try to make me ashamed of myself as you
succeeded in doing with that fool. Now listen: I solemnly swear that if
you worry and annoy me by making me play various mean and odious parts in
this comedy of yours,—I swear to you that I will throw up the whole
business and put an end to it in a moment. It is quite enough that I have
consented to be a party in the main and essence of the base transactions;
but—but—I did not know myself, I am poisoned and suffocated with the
stench of it!”—So saying, she left the room and banged the door after her.

Maria Alexandrovna looked fixedly after her for a moment, and reflected.

“I must make haste,” she cried, rousing herself; “_she_ is the greatest
danger and difficulty of all! If these detestable people do not let us
alone, instead of acting the town-criers all over the place (as I fear
they are doing already!)—all will be lost! She won’t stand the worry of
it—she’ll drop the business altogether!—At all hazards, I must get the
prince to the country house, and that quickly, too! I shall be off there
at once, first, and bring my fool of a husband up: he shall be made useful
for once in his life! Meanwhile the prince shall have his sleep out, and
when he wakes up I shall be back and ready to cart him away bodily!”

She rang the bell.

“Are the horses ready?” she inquired of the man.

“Yes, madam, long ago!” said the latter.

She had ordered the carriage the moment after she had taken the prince
upstairs.

Maria Alexandrovna dressed hurriedly, and then looked in at Zina’s room
for a moment, before starting, in order to tell her the outlines of her
plan of operations, and at the same time to give Zina a few necessary
instructions. But her daughter could not listen to her. She was lying on
her bed with face hidden in the pillows, crying, and was tearing her
beautiful hair with her long white hands: occasionally she trembled
violently for a moment, as though a blast of cold had passed through all
her veins. Her mother began to speak to her, but Zina did not even raise
her head!

Having stood over her daughter in a state of bewilderment for some little
while, Maria Alexandrovna left the room; and to make up for lost time bade
the coachman drive like fury, as she stepped into the carriage.

“I don’t quite like Zina having listened!” she thought as she rattled
away. “I gave Mosgliakoff very much the same argument as to herself: she
is proud, and may easily have taken offence! H’m! Well, the great thing is
to be in time with all the arrangements,—before people know what I am up
to! Good heavens, fancy, if my fool of a husband were to be out!!”

And at the very thought of such a thing, Maria Alexandrovna’s rage so
overcame her that it was clear her poor husband would fare badly for his
sins if he proved to be not at home! She twisted and turned in her place
with impatience,—the horses almost galloped with the carriage at their
heels.

CHAPTER X.

On they flew.

I have said already that this very day, on her first drive after the
prince, Maria Alexandrovna had been inspired with a great idea! and I
promised to reveal this idea in its proper place. But I am sure the reader
has guessed it already!—It was, to “confiscate” the prince in her turn,
and carry him off to the village where, at this moment, her husband
Afanassy Matveyevitch vegetated alone.

I must admit that our heroine was growing more and more anxious as the day
went on; but this is often the case with heroes of all kinds, just before
they attain their great ends! Some such instinct whispered to her that it
was not safe to remain in Mordasoff another hour, if it could be
avoided;—but once in the country house, the whole town might go mad and
stand on its head, for all she cared!

Of course she must not lose time, even there! All sorts of things might
happen—even the police might interfere. (Reader, I shall never believe,
for my part, that my heroine really had the slightest fear of the vulgar
police force; but as it has been rumoured in Mordasoff that at this moment
such a thought _did_ pass through her brain, why, I must record the fact.)

In a word she saw clearly that Zina’s marriage with the prince must be
brought about at once, without delay! It was easily done: the priest at
the village should perform the ceremony; why not the day after to-morrow?
or indeed, in case of need, to-morrow? Marriages had often been brought
about in less time than this—in two hours, she had heard! It would be easy
enough to persuade the prince that haste and simplicity would be in far
better taste than all the usual pomps and vanities of common everyday
weddings. In fact, she relied upon her skill in putting the matter to the
old man as a fitting dramatic issue to a romantic story of love, and thus
to touch the most sensitive string of his chivalrous heart.

In case of absolute need there was always the possibility of making him
drunk, or rather of _keeping_ him perpetually drunk. And then, come what
might, Zina would be a princess! And if this marriage were fated to
produce scandal among the prince’s relations and friends in St. Petersburg
and Moscow, Maria Alexandrovna comforted herself with the reflection that
marriages in high life nearly always _were_ productive of scandal; and
that such a result might fairly be looked upon as “good form,” and as
peculiar to aristocratic circles.

Besides, she felt sure that Zina need only show herself in society, with
her mamma to support her, and every one of all those countesses and
princes should very soon either acknowledge her of their own accord, or
yield to the head-washing that Maria Alexandrovna felt herself so
competent to give to any or all of them, individually or collectively.

It was in consequence of these reflections that Maria Alexandrovna was now
hastening with all speed towards her village, in order to bring back
Afanassy Matveyevitch, whose presence she considered absolutely necessary
at this crisis. It was desirable that her husband should appear and invite
the prince down to the country: she relied upon the appearance of the
father of the family, in dress-coat and white tie, hastening up to town on
the first rumours of the prince’s arrival there, to produce a very
favourable impression upon the old man’s self-respect: it would flatter
him; and after such a courteous action, followed by a polite and
warmly-couched invitation to the country, the prince would hardly refuse
to go.

At last the carriage stopped at the door of a long low wooden house,
surrounded by old lime trees. This was the country house, Maria
Alexandrovna’s village residence.

Lights were burning inside.

“Where’s my old fool?” cried Maria Alexandrovna bursting like a hurricane
into the sitting-room.

“Whats this towel lying here for?—Oh!—he’s been wiping his head, has he.
What, the baths again! and tea—of course tea!—always tea! Well, what are
you winking your eyes at me for, you old fool?—Here, why is his hair not
cropped? Grisha, Grisha!—here; why didn’t you cut your master’s hair, as I
told you?”

Maria Alexandrovna, on entering the room, had intended to greet her
husband more kindly than this; but seeing that he had just been to the
baths and that he was drinking tea with great satisfaction, as usual, she
could not restrain her irritable feelings.

She felt the contrast between her own activity and intellectual energy,
and the stolid indifference and sheep-like contentedness of her husband,
and it went to her heart!

Meanwhile the “old fool,” or to put it more politely, he who had been
addressed by that title, sat at the tea-urn, and stared with open mouth,
in abject alarm, opening and shutting his lips as he gazed at the wife of
his bosom, who had almost petrified him by her sudden appearance.

At the door stood the sleepy, fat Grisha, looking on at the scene, and
blinking both eyes at periodical intervals.

“I couldn’t cut his hair as you wished, because he wouldn’t let me!” he
growled at last. “ ‘You’d better let me do it!’—I said, ‘or the
mistress’ll be down one of these days, and then we shall both catch it!’ ”

“No,” he says, “I want it like this now, and you shall cut it on Sunday. I
like it long!”

“What!—So you wish to curl it without my leave, do you! What an idea—as if
you could wear curls with your sheep-face underneath! Good gracious, what
a mess you’ve made of the place; and what’s the smell—what have you been
doing, idiot, eh!” cried Maria Alexandrovna, waxing more and more angry,
and turning furiously upon the wretched and perfectly innocent Afanassy!

“Mam—mammy!” muttered the poor frightened master of the house, gazing with
frightened eyes at the mistress, and blinking with all his might—“mammy!”

“How many times have I dinned into your stupid head that I am _not_ your
‘mammy.’ How can I be your mammy, you idiotic pigmy? How dare you call a
noble lady by such a name; a lady whose proper place is in the highest
circles, not beside an ass like yourself!”

“Yes—yes,—but—but, you _are_ my legal wife, you know, after all;—so I—it
was husbandly affection you know——” murmured poor Afanassy, raising both
hands to his head as he spoke, to defend his hair from the tugs he
evidently expected.

“Oh, idiot that you are! did anyone ever hear such a ridiculous answer as
that—legal wife, indeed! Who ever heard the expression ‘_legal_ wife,’ in
good society—nasty low expression! And how dare you remind me that I am
your wife, when I use all my power and do all I possibly can at every
moment to forget the fact, eh? What are you covering your head with your
hands for? Look at his hair—now: wet, as wet as reeds! it will take three
hours to dry that head! How on earth am I to take him like this? How can
he show his face among respectable people? What am I to do?”

And Maria Alexandrovna bit her finger-nails with rage as she walked
furiously up and down the room.

It was no very great matter, of course; and one that was easily set right;
but Maria Alexandrovna required a vent for her feelings and felt the need
of emptying out her accumulated wrath upon the head of the wretched
Afanassy Matveyevitch; for tyranny is a habit recallable at need.

Besides, everyone knows how great a contrast there is between the
sweetness and refinement shown by many ladies of a certain class on the
stage, as it were, of society life, and the revelations of character
behind the scenes at home; and I was anxious to bring out this contrast
for my reader’s benefit.

Afanassy watched the movements of his terrible spouse in fear and
trembling; perspiration formed upon his brow as he gazed.

“Grisha!” she cried at last, “dress your master this instant! Dress-coat,
black trousers, white waistcoat and tie, quick! Where’s his
hairbrush—quick, quick!”

“Mam—my! Why, I’ve just been to the bath. I shall catch cold if I go up to
town just now!”

“You won’t catch cold!”

“But—mammy, my hair’s quite wet!”

“We’ll dry it in a minute. Here, Grisha, take this brush and brush away
till he’s dry,—harder—harder—much harder! There, that’s better!”

Grisha worked like a man. For the greater convenience of his herculean
task he seized his master’s shoulder with one hand as he rubbed violently
with the other. Poor Afanassy grunted and groaned and almost wept.

“Now, then, lift him up a bit. Where’s the pomatum? Bend your head,
duffer!—bend lower, you abject dummy!” And Maria Alexandrovna herself
undertook to pomade her husband’s hair, ploughing her hands through it
without the slightest pity. Afanassy heartily wished that his shock growth
had been cut. He winced, and groaned and moaned, but did not cry out under
the painful operation.

“You suck my life-blood out of me—bend lower, you idiot!” remarked the
fond wife—“bend lower still, I tell you!”

“How have I sucked your life blood?” asked the victim, bending his head as
low as circumstances permitted.

“Fool!—allegorically, of course—can’t you understand? Now, then, comb it
yourself. Here, Grisha, dress him, quick!”

Our heroine threw herself into an arm-chair, and critically watched the
ceremony of adorning her husband. Meanwhile the latter had a little
opportunity to get his breath once more and compose his feelings
generally; so that when matters arrived at the point where the tie is
tied, he had even developed so much audacity as to express opinions of his
own as to how the bow should be manufactured.

At last, having put his dress-coat on, the lord of the manor was his brave
self again, and gazed at his highly ornate person in the glass with great
satisfaction and complacency.

“Where are you going to take me to?” he now asked, smiling at his
reflected self.

Maria Alexandrovna could not believe her ears.

“What—_what_? How _dare_ you ask me where I am taking you to, sir!”

“But—mammy—I must know, you know——”

“Hold your tongue! You let me hear you call me mammy again, especially
where we are going to now! you sha’n’t have any tea for a month!”

The frightened consort held his peace.

“Look at that, now! You haven’t got a single ’order’ to put on—sloven!”
she continued, looking at his black coat with contempt.

“The Government awards orders, mammy; and I am not a sloven, but a town
councillor!” said Afanassy, with a sudden excess of noble wrath.

“What, what—_what_! So you’ve learned to argue now, have you—you mongrel,
you? However, I haven’t time to waste over you now, or I’d——but I sha’n’t
forget it. Here, Grisha, give him his fur coat and his hat—quick; and look
here, Grisha, when I’m gone, get these three rooms ready, and the green
room, and the corner bedroom. Quick—find your broom; take the coverings
off the looking-glasses and clocks, and see that all is ready and tidy
within an hour. Put on a dress coat, and see that the other men have
gloves: don’t lose time. Quick, now!”

She entered the carriage, followed by Afanassy. The latter sat bewildered
and lost.

Meanwhile Maria Alexandrovna reflected as to how best she could drum into
her husband’s thick skull certain essential instructions with regard to
the present situation of affairs. But Afanassy anticipated her.

“I had a very original dream to-day, Maria Alexandrovna,” he observed
quite unexpectedly, in the middle of a long silence.

“Tfu! idiot. I thought you were going to say something of terrific
interest, from the look of you. Dream, indeed! How dare you mention your
miserable dreams to me! Original, too! Listen here: if you dare so much as
remind me of the word ‘dream,’ or say anything else, either, where we are
going to-day, I—I don’t know _what_ I won’t do to you! Now, look here:
Prince K. has arrived at my house. Do you remember Prince K.?”

“Oh, yes, mammy, I remember; and why has he done us this honour?”

“Be quiet; that’s not your business. Now, you are to invite him, with all
the amiability you can, to come down to our house in the country, at once!
That is what I am taking you up for. And if you dare so much as breathe
another word of any kind, either to-day or to-morrow, or next day, without
leave from me, you shall herd geese for a whole year. You’re not to say a
single word, mind! and that’s all you have to think of. Do you understand,
now?”

“Well, but if I’m asked anything?”

“Hold your tongue all the same!”

“Oh, but I can’t do that—I can’t do——”

“Very well, then; you can say ‘H’m,’ or something of that sort, to give
them the idea that you are very wise indeed, and like to think well before
answering.”

“H’m.”

“Understand me, now. I am taking you up because you are to make it appear
that you have just heard of the prince’s visit, and have hastened up to
town in a transport of joy to express your unbounded respect and gratitude
to him, and to invite him at once to your country house! Do you understand
me?”

“H’m.”

“I don’t want you to say ‘H’m’ _now_, you fool! You must answer _me_ when
I speak!”

“All right—all right, mammy. All shall be as you wish; but why am I to ask
the prince down?”

“What—what! arguing again. What business is it of yours _why_ you are to
invite him? How dare you ask questions!”

“Why it’s all the same thing, mammy. How am I to invite him if I must not
say a word?”

“Oh, I shall do all the talking. All you have to do is to bow. Do you
hear? _Bow_; and hold your hat in your hand and look polite. Do you
understand, or not?”

“I understand, mam—Maria-Alexandrovna.”

“The prince is very witty, indeed; so mind, if he says anything either to
yourself or anyone else, you are to laugh cordially and merrily. Do you
hear me?”

“H’m.”

“Don’t say ‘H’m’ to _me_, I tell you. You are to answer me plainly and
simply. Do you hear me, or not?”

“Yes, yes; I hear you, of course. That’s all right. I only say ‘H’m,’ for
practice; I want to get into the way of saying it. But look here, mammy,
it’s all very well; you say I’m not to speak, and if he speaks to me I’m
to look at him and laugh—but what if he asks me a question?”

“Oh—you dense log of a man! I tell you again, you are to be quiet. _I’ll_
answer for you. You have simply got to look polite, and smile!”

“But he’ll think I am dumb!” said Afanassy.

“Well, and what if he does. Let him! You’ll conceal the fact that you are
a fool, anyhow!”

“H’m, and if _other_ people ask me questions?”

“No one will; there’ll be no one to ask you. But if there _should_ be
anyone else in the room, and they ask you questions, all you have to do is
to smile sarcastically. Do you know what a sarcastic smile is?”

“What, a witty sort of smile, is it, mammy?”

“I’ll let you know about it! _Witty_, indeed! Why, who would think of
expecting anything witty from a fool like you. No, sir, a jesting
smile—_jesting_ and _contemptuous_!”

“H’m.”

“Good heavens. I’m afraid for this idiot,” thought Maria Alexandrovna to
herself. “I really think it would have been almost better to leave him
behind, after all.” So thinking, nervous and anxious, Maria Alexandrovna
drove on. She looked out of the window, and she fidgeted, and she bustled
the coachman up. The horses were almost flying through the air; but to her
they appeared to be crawling. Afanassy sat silent and thoughtful in the
corner of the carriage, practising his lessons. At last the carriage
arrived at the town house.

Hardly, however, had Maria Alexandrovna mounted the outer steps when she
became aware of a fine pair of horses trotting up—drawing a smart sledge
with a hood to it. In fact, the very “turn-out” in which Anna Nicolaevna
Antipova was generally to be seen.

Two ladies sat in the sledge. One of these was, of course, Mrs. Antipova
herself; the other was Natalia Dimitrievna, of late the great friend and
ally of the former lady.

Maria Alexandrovna’s heart sank.

But she had no time to say a word, before another smart vehicle drove up,
in which there reclined yet another guest. Exclamations of joy and delight
were now heard.

“Maria Alexandrovna! and Afanassy Matveyevitch! Just arrived, too! Where
from? How extremely delightful! And here we are, you see, just driven up
at the right moment. We are going to spend the evening with you. What a
delightful surprise.”

The guests alighted and fluttered up the steps like so many swallows.

Maria Alexandrovna could neither believe her eyes nor her ears.

“Curse you all!” she said to herself. “This looks like a plot—it must be
seen to; but it takes more than a flight of magpies like _you_ to get to
windward of _me_. Wait a little!!”

CHAPTER XI.

Mosgliakoff went out from Maria Alexandrovna’s house to all appearances
quite pacified. She had fired his ardour completely. His imagination was
kindled.

He did not go to his godfather’s, for he felt the need of solitude. A
terrific rush of heroic and romantic thoughts surged over him, and gave
him no rest.

He pictured to himself the solemn explanation he should have with Zina,
then the generous throbs of his all-forgiving heart; his pallor and
despair at the future ball in St. Petersburg; then Spain, the
Guadalquiver, and love, and the old dying prince joining their hands with
his last blessing. Then came thoughts of his beautiful wife, devoted to
himself, and never ceasing to wonder at and admire her husband’s heroism
and exalted refinement of taste and conduct. Then, among other things, the
attention which he should attract among the ladies of the highest circles,
into which he would of course enter, thanks to his marriage with
Zina—widow of the Prince K.: then the inevitable appointments, first as a
vice-governor, with the delightful accompaniment of salary: in a word,
all, _all_ that Maria Alexandrovna’s eloquence had pictured to his
imagination, now marched in triumphant procession through his brain,
soothing and attracting and flattering his self-love.

And yet—(I really cannot explain this phenomenon, however!)—and yet, no
sooner did the first flush of this delightful sunrise of future delights
pass off and fade away, than the annoying thought struck him: this is all
very well, but it is in the future: and now, to-day, I shall look a
dreadful fool. As he reflected thus, he looked up and found that he had
wandered a long way, to some of the dirty back slums of the town. A wet
snow was falling; now and again he met another belated pedestrian like
himself. The outer circumstances began to anger Mosgliakoff, which was a
bad sign; for when things are going well with us we are always inclined to
see everything in a rose-coloured light.

Paul could not help remembering that up to now he had been in the habit of
cutting a dash at Mordasoff. He had enjoyed being treated at all the
houses he went to in the town, as Zina’s accepted lover, and to be
congratulated, as he often was, upon the honour of that distinction. He
was proud of being her future husband; and here he was now with notice to
quit. He would be laughed at. He couldn’t tell everybody about the future
scene in the ball-room at St. Petersburg, and the Guadalquiver, and all
that! And then a thought came out into prominence, which had been
uncomfortably fidgeting about in his brain for some time: “Was it all
true? _Would_ it really come about as Maria Alexandrovna had predicted?”

Here it struck him that Maria Alexandrovna was an amazingly cunning woman;
that, however worthy she might be of universal esteem, still she was a
known scandal-monger, and lied from morning to night! that, again, she
probably had some good reason for wishing him out of the place to-night.
He next bethought him of Zina, and of her parting look at him, which was
very far from being expressive of passionate love; he remembered also,
that, less than an hour ago she had called him a fool.

As he thought of the last fact Paul stopped in his tracks, as though shot;
blushed, and almost cried for very shame! At this very moment he was
unfortunate enough to lose his footing on the slippery pavement, and to go
head-first into a snow-heap. As he stood shaking himself dry, a whole
troop of dogs, which had long trotted barking at his heels, flew at him.
One of them, a wretched little half-starved beast, went so far as to fix
her teeth into his fur coat and hang therefrom. Swearing and striking out,
Paul cleared his way out of the yelping pack at last, in a fury, and with
rent clothes; and making his way as fast as he could to the corner of the
street, discovered that he hadn’t the slightest idea where he was. He
walked up lanes, and down streets, and round corners, and lost himself
more and more hopelessly; also his temper. “The devil take all these
confounded exalted ideas!” he growled, half aloud; “and the archfiend take
every one of you, you and your Guadalquivers and humbug!”

Mosgliakoff was not in a pretty humour at this moment.

At last, tired and horribly angry, after two hours of walking, he reached
the door of Maria Alexandrovna’s house.

Observing a host of carriages standing outside, he paused to consider.

“Surely she has not a party to-night!” he thought, “and if she has, _why_
has she a party?”

He inquired of the servants, and found out that Maria Alexandrovna had
been out of town, and had fetched up Afanassy Matveyevitch, gorgeous in
his dress-suit and white tie. He learned, further, that the prince was
awake, but had not as yet made his appearance in the “salon.”

On receiving this information, Paul Mosgliakoff said not a word, but
quietly made his way upstairs to his uncle’s room.

He was in that frame of mind in which a man determines to commit some
desperate act, out of revenge, aware at the time, and wide awake to the
fact that he is about to do the deed, but forgetting entirely that he may
very likely regret it all his life afterwards!

Entering the prince’s room, he found that worthy seated before the glass,
with a perfectly bare head, but with whiskers and napoleon stuck on. His
wig was in the hands of his old and grey valet, his favourite Ivan
Pochomitch, and the latter was gravely and thoughtfully combing it out.

As for the prince, he was indeed a pitiable object! He was not half awake
yet, for one thing; he sat as though he were still dazed with sleep; he
kept opening and shutting his mouth, and stared at Mosgliakoff as though
he did not know him!

“Well, how are you, uncle?” asked Mosgliakoff.

“What, it’s you, is it!” said the prince. “Ye—yes; I’ve been as—leep a
little while! Oh, heavens!” he cried suddenly, with great animation, “why,
I’ve got no wi—ig on!”

“Oh, never mind that, uncle; I’ll help you on with it, if you like!”

“Dear me; now you’ve found out my se—ecret! I told him to shut the door.
Now, my friend, you must give me your word in—stantly, that you’ll never
breathe a hint of this to anyone—I mean about my hair being ar—tificial!”

“Oh, uncle! As if I could be guilty of such meanness?” cried Paul, who was
anxious to please the prince, for reasons of his own.

“Ye—yes, ye—yes. Well, as I see you are a good fe—ellow, I—I’ll just
as—tonish you a little: I’ll tell you all my secrets! How do you like my
mous—tache, my dear boy?”

“Wonderful, uncle, wonderful! It astonishes me that you should have been
able to keep it so long!”

“Sp—are your wonder, my friend, it’s ar—tificial!”

“No!! That’s difficult to believe! Well, and your whiskers, uncle!
admit—you black them, now _don’t_ you?”

“Black them? Not—only I don’t black them, but they, too, are ar—tificial!”
said the Prince, regarding Mosgliakoff with a look of triumph.

“_What!_ Artificial? No, no, uncle! I can’t believe _that_! You’re
laughing at me!”

“_Parole d’honneur, mon ami!_” cried the delighted old man; “and fancy,
all—everybody is taken in by them just as you were! Even Stepanida
Matveyevna cannot believe they are not real, sometimes, although she often
sticks them on herself! But, I am sure, my dear friend, you will keep my
se—cret. Give me your word!”

“I do give you my word, uncle! But surely you do not suppose I would be so
mean as to divulge it?”

“Oh, my boy! I had such a fall to-day, without you. The coachman upset me
out of the carriage again!”

“How? When?”

“Why, we were driving to the mo—nastery, when?——”

“I know, uncle: that was early this morning!”

“No, no! A couple of hours ago, not more! I was driving along with him,
and he suddenly took and up—set me!”

“Why, my dear uncle, you were asleep,” began Paul, in amazement!

“Ye—yes, ye—yes. I did have a sleep; and then I drove away, at least I—at
least I—dear me, how strange it all seems!”

“I assure you, uncle, you have been dreaming! You saw all this in a dream!
You have been sleeping quietly here since just after dinner!”

“No!” And the prince reflected. “Ye—yes. Perhaps I did see it all in a
dream! However, I can remember all I saw quite well. First, I saw a large
bull with horns; and then I saw a pro—curor, and I think he had huge horns
too. Then there was Napoleon Buonaparte. Did you ever hear, my boy, that
people say I am so like Napoleon Buonaparte? But my profile is very like
some old pope. What do you think about it, my bo—oy?”

“I think you are much more like Napoleon Buonaparte, uncle!”

“Why, ye—yes, of course—full face; so I am, my boy, so I am! I dreamt of
him on his is—land, and do you know he was such a merry, talk—ative
fellow, he quite am—used me!”

“Who, uncle—Napoleon?” asked Mosgliakoff, looking thoughtfully at the old
man. A strange idea was beginning to occupy his brain—an idea which he
could not quite put into shape as yet.

“Ye—yes, ye—yes, Nap—oleon. We talked about philosophical subjects. And do
you know, my boy, I became quite sorry that the English had been so hard
upon him. Of course, though, if one didn’t chain him up, he would be
flying at people’s throats again! Still I’m sorry for him. Now I should
have managed him quite differently. I should have put him on an
uninhabited island.”

“Why uninhabited, uncle?” asked Mosgliakoff, absently.

“Well, well, an inhabited one, then; but the in—habitants must be good
sort of people. And I should arrange all sorts of amusements for him, at
the State’s charge: theatres, balle’s, and so on. And, of course, he
should walk about, under proper su—pervision. Then he should have tarts
(he liked tarts, you know), as many tarts as ever he pleased. I should
treat him like a fa—ather; and he would end by being sorry for his sins,
see if he wouldn’t!”

Mosgliakoff listened absently to all this senile gabble, and bit his nails
with impatience. He was anxious to turn the conversation on to the subject
of marriage. He did not know quite clearly why he wished to do so, but his
heart was boiling over with anger.

Suddenly the old man made an exclamation of surprise.

“Why, my dear boy, I declare I’ve forgotten to tell you about it. Fancy, I
made an offer of marriage to-day!”

“An offer of marriage, uncle?” cried Paul, brightening up.

“Why, ye—yes! an offer. Pachomief, are you going? All right! Away with
you! Ye—yes, _c’est une charmante personne_. But I confess, I took the
step rather rash—ly. I only begin to see that now. Dear me! dear, dear
me!”

“Excuse me, uncle; but _when_ did you make this offer?”

“Well, I admit I don’t know exactly _when_ I made it! Perhaps I
dre—dreamed it; I don’t know. Dear me, how very strange it all seems!”

Mosgliakoff trembled with joy: his new idea blazed forth in full developed
glory.

“And _whom_ did you propose to?” he asked impatiently.

“The daughter of the house, my boy; that beau—tiful girl. I—I forget what
they call her. Bu—but, my dear boy, you see I—I can’t possibly marry. What
am I to do?”

“Oh! of course, you are done for if you marry, that’s clear. But let me
ask you one more question, uncle. Are you perfectly certain that you
actually made her an offer of marriage?”

“Ye—yes, I’m sure of it; I—I——.”

“And what if you dreamed the whole thing, just as you did that you were
upset out of the carriage a second time?”

“Dear me! dear me! I—I really think I may have dreamed it; it’s very
awkward. I don’t know how to show myself there, now. H—how could I find
out, dear boy, for certain? Couldn’t I get to know by some outside way
whether I really did make her an offer of ma—arriage or not? Why, just you
think of my dreadful po—sition!”

“Do you know, uncle, I don’t think we need trouble ourselves to find out
at all.”

“Why, wh—what then?”

“I am convinced that you were dreaming.”

“I—I think so myself, too, my dear fellow; es—pecially as I often have
that sort of dream.”

“You see, uncle, you had a drop of wine for lunch, and then another drop
or two for dinner, don’t you know; and so you may easily have——”

“Ye—yes, quite so, quite so; it may easily have been that.”

“Besides, my dear uncle, however excited you may have been, you would
never have taken such a senseless step in your waking moments. So far as I
know you, uncle, you are a man of the highest and most deliberate
judgment, and I am positive that——”

“Ye—yes, ye—yes.”

“Why, only imagine—if your relations were to get to hear of such a thing.
My goodness, uncle! they were cruel enough to you before. What do you
suppose they would do _now_, eh?”

“Goodness gracious!” cried the frightened old prince. “Good—ness gracious!
Wh—why, what would they do, do you think?”

“Do? Why, of course, they would all screech out that you had acted under
the influence of insanity: in fact, that you were mad; that you had been
swindled, and that you must be put under proper restraint. In fact, they’d
pop you into some lunatic asylum.”

Mosgliakoff was well aware of the best method of frightening the poor old
man out of his wits.

“Gracious heavens!” cried the latter, trembling like a leaflet with
horror. “Gra—cious heavens! would they really do that?”

“Undoubtedly; and, knowing this, uncle, think for yourself. Could you
possibly have done such a thing with your eyes open? As if you don’t
understand what’s good for you just as well as your neighbours. I solemnly
affirm that you saw all this in a dream!”

“Of course, of course; un—doubtedly in a dream, un—doubtedly so! What a
clever fellow you are, my dear boy; you saw it at once. I am deeply
grate—ful to you for putting me right. I was really quite under the
im—pression I had actually done it.”

“And how glad I am that I met you, uncle, before you went in there! Just
fancy, what a mess you might have made of it! You might have gone in
thinking you were engaged to the girl, and behaved in the capacity of
accepted lover. Think how fearfully dangerous——.”

“Ye—yes, of course; most dangerous!”

“Why, remember, this girl is twenty-three years old. Nobody will marry
her, and suddenly _you_, a rich and eminent man of rank and title, appear
on the scene as her accepted swain. They would lay hold of the idea at
once, and act up to it, and swear that you really were her future husband,
and would marry you off, too. I daresay they would even count upon your
speedy death, and make their calculations accordingly.”

“No!”

“Then again, uncle; a man of your dignity——”

“Ye—yes, quite so, dig—nity!”

“And wisdom,—and amiability——”

“Quite so; wis—dom—wisdom!”

“And then—a prince into the bargain! Good gracious, uncle, as if a man
like yourself would make such a match as _that_, if you really did mean
marrying! What would your relations say?”

“Why, my dear boy, they’d simply ea—eat me up,—I—I know their cunning and
malice of old! My dear fellow—you won’t believe it—but I assure you I was
afraid they were going to put me into a lun—atic asylum! a common
ma—ad-house! Goodness me, think of that! Whatever should I have done with
myself all day in a ma—ad-house?”

“Of course, of course! Well, I won’t leave your side, then, uncle, when
you go downstairs. There are guests there too!”

“Guests? dear me! I—I——”

“Don’t be afraid, uncle; I shall be by you!”

“I—I’m _so_ much obliged to you, my dear boy; you have simply sa—ved me,
you have indeed! But, do you know what,—I think I’d better go away
altogether!”

“To-morrow, uncle! to-morrow morning at seven! and this evening you must
be sure to say, in the presence of everybody, that you are starting away
at seven next morning: you must say good-bye to-night!”

“Un—doubtedly, undoubtedly—I shall go;—but what if they talk to me as
though I were engaged to the young wo—oman?”

“Don’t you fear, uncle! I shall be there! And mind, whatever they say or
hint to you, you must declare that you dreamed the whole thing—as indeed
you did, of course?”

“Ye—yes, quite so, un—doubtedly so! But, do you know my dear boy, it was a
most be—witching dream, for all that! She is a wond—erfully lovely girl,
my boy,—such a figure—bewitching—be—witching!”

“Well, _au revoir_, uncle! I’m going down, now, and you——”

“How! How! you are not going to leave me alone?” cried the old man,
greatly alarmed.

“No, no—oh no, uncle; but we must enter the room separately. First, I will
go in, and then you come down; that will be better!”

“Very well, very well. Besides, I just want to note down one little
i—dea——”

“Capital, uncle! jot it down, and then come at once; don’t wait any
longer; and to-morrow morning——”

“And to-morrow morning away we go to the Her—mitage, straight to the
Her—mitage! Charming—charm—ing! but, do you know, my boy,—she’s a
fas—cinating girl—she is indeed! be—witching! Such a bust! and, really, if
I were to marry, I—I—really——”

“No, no, uncle! Heaven forbid!”

“Yes—yes—quite so—Heaven for—bid!—well, _au revoir_, my friend—I’ll come
directly; by the bye—I meant to ask you, have you read Kazanoff’s
Memoirs?”

“Yes, uncle. Why?”

“Yes, yes, quite so—I forget what I wanted to say——”

“You’ll remember afterwards, uncle! _au revoir!_”

“_Au revoir_, my boy, _au revoir_—but, I say, it was a bewitching dream, a
most be—witching dream!”

CHAPTER XII.

“Here we all are, all of us, come to spend the evening; Proskovia
Ilinishna is coming too, and Luisa Karlovna and all!” cried Mrs. Antipova
as she entered the salon, and looked hungrily round. She was a neat,
pretty little woman! she was well-dressed, and knew it.

She looked greedily around, as I say, because she had an idea that the
prince and Zina were hidden together somewhere about the room.

“Yes, and Katerina Petrovna, and Felisata Michaelovna are coming as well,”
added Natalia Dimitrievna, a huge woman—whose figure had pleased the
prince so much, and who looked more like a grenadier than anything else.
This monster had been hand and glove with little Mrs. Antipova for the
last three weeks; they were now quite inseparable. Natalia looked as
though she could pick her little friend up and swallow her, bones and all,
without thinking.

“I need not say with what _rapture_ I welcome you both to my house, and
for a whole evening, too!” piped Maria Alexandrovna, a little recovered
from her first shock of amazement; “but do tell me, what miracle is it
that has brought you all to-day, when I had quite despaired of ever seeing
anyone of you in my house again?”

“Oh, oh! my _dear_ Maria Alexandrovna!” said Natalia, very affectedly, but
sweetly. The attributes of sweetness and affectation were a curious
contrast to her personal appearance.

“You see, dearest Maria Alexandrovna,” chirped Mrs. Antipova, “we really
must get on with the private theatricals question! It was only this very
day that Peter Michaelovitch was saying how _bad_ it was of us to have
made no progress towards rehearsing, and so on; and that it was quite time
we brought all our silly squabbles to an end! Well, four of us got
together to-day, and then it struck us ‘Let’s all go to Maria
Alexandrovna’s, and settle the matter once for all!’ So Natalia
Dimitrievna let all the rest know that we were to meet here! We’ll soon
settle it—I don’t think we should allow it to be said that we do nothing
but ‘squabble’ over the preliminaries and get no farther, do _you_, dear
Maria Alexandrovna?” She added, playfully, and kissing our heroine
affectionately, “Goodness me, Zenaida, I declare you grow prettier every
day!” And she betook herself to embracing Zina with equal affection.

“She has nothing else to do, but sit and grow more and more beautiful!”
said Natalia with great sweetness, rubbing her huge hands together.

“Oh, the devil take them all! they know I care nothing about private
theatricals—cursed magpies!” reflected Maria Alexandrovna, beside herself
with rage.

“Especially, dear, as that delightful prince is with you just now. You
know there is a private theatre in his house at Donchanof, and we have
discovered that somewhere or other there, there are a lot of old
theatrical properties and decorations and scenery. The prince was at my
house to-day, but I was so surprised to see him that it all went clean out
of my head and I forgot to ask him. Now we’ll broach the subject before
him. You must support me and we’ll persuade him to send us all the old
rubbish that can be found. We want to get the prince to come and see the
play, too! He is sure to subscribe, isn’t he—as it is for the poor?
Perhaps he would even take a part; he is such a dear, kind, willing old
man. If only he did, it would make the fortune of our play!”

“Of course he will take a part! why, he can be made to play _any_ part!”
remarked Natalia significantly.

Mrs. Antipova had not exaggerated. Guests poured in every moment! Maria
Alexandrovna hardly had time to receive one lot and make the usual
exclamations of surprise and delight exacted by the laws of etiquette
before another arrival would be announced.

I will not undertake to describe all these good people. I will only remark
that every one of them, on arrival, looked about her cunningly; and that
every face wore an expression of expectation and impatience.

Some of them came with the distinct intention of witnessing some scene of
a delightfully scandalous nature, and were prepared to be very angry
indeed if it should turn out that they were obliged to leave the house
without the gratification of their hopes.

All behaved in the most amiable and affectionate manner towards their
hostess; but Maria Alexandrovna firmly braced her nerves for battle.

Many apparently natural and innocent questions were asked about the
prince; but in each one might be detected some hint or insinuation.

Tea came in, and people moved about and changed places: one group
surrounded the piano; Zina was requested to play and sing, but answered
drily that she was not quite well—and the paleness of her face bore out
this assertion. Inquiries were made for Mosgliakoff; and these inquiries
were addressed to Zina.

Maria Alexandrovna proved that she had the eyes and ears of ten ordinary
mortals. She saw and heard all that was going on in every corner of the
room; she heard and answered every question asked, and answered readily
and cleverly. She was dreadfully anxious about Zina, however, and wondered
why she did not leave the room, as she usually did on such occasions.

Poor Afanassy came in for his share of notice, too. It was the custom of
these amiable people of Mordasoff to do their best to set Maria
Alexandrovna and her husband “by the ears;” but to-day there were hopes of
extracting valuable news and secrets out of the candid simplicity of the
latter.

Maria Alexandrovna watched the state of siege into which the wretched
Afanassy was thrown, with great anxiety; he was answering “H’m!” to all
questions put to him, as instructed; but with so wretched an expression
and so extremely artificial a mien that Maria Alexandrovna could barely
restrain her wrath.

“Maria Alexandrovna! your husband won’t have a word to say to me!”
remarked a sharp-faced little lady with a devil-may-care manner, as though
she cared nothing for anybody, and was not to be abashed under any
circumstances. “Do ask him to be a _little_ more courteous towards
ladies!”

“I really don’t know myself what can have happened to him to-day!” said
Maria Alexandrovna, interrupting her conversation with Mrs. Antipova and
Natalia, and laughing merrily; “he is so _dreadfully_ uncommunicative! He
has scarcely said a word even to _me_, all day! Why don’t you answer
Felisata Michaelovna, Afanassy? What did you ask him?”

“But, but—why, mammy, you told me yourself”—began the bewildered and lost
Afanassy. At this moment he was standing at the fireside with one hand
placed inside his waistcoat, in an artistic position which he had chosen
deliberately, on mature reflection,—and he was sipping his tea. The
questions of the ladies had so confused him that he was blushing like a
girl.

When he began the justification of himself recorded above, he suddenly met
so dreadful a look in the eyes of his infuriated spouse that he nearly
lost all consciousness, for terror!

Uncertain what to do, but anxious to recover himself and win back her
favour once more, he said nothing, but took a gulp of tea to restore his
scattered senses.

Unfortunately the tea was too hot; which fact, together with the hugeness
of the gulp he took—quite upset him. He burned his throat, choked, sent
the cup flying, and burst into such a fit of coughing that he was obliged
to leave the room for a time, awakening universal astonishment by his
conduct.

In a word, Maria Alexandrovna saw clearly enough that her guests knew all
about it, and had assembled with malicious intent! The situation was
dangerous! They were quite capable of confusing and overwhelming the
feeble-minded old prince before her very eyes! They might even carry him
off bodily—after stirring up a quarrel between the old man and herself!
_Anything_ might happen.

But fate had prepared her one more surprise. The door opened and in came
Mosgliakoff—who, as she thought, was far enough away at his godfather’s,
and would not come near her to-night! She shuddered as though something
had hurt her.

Mosgliakoff stood a moment at the door, looking around at the company. He
was a little bewildered, and could not conceal his agitation, which showed
itself very clearly in his expression.

“Why, it’s Paul Alexandrovitch! and you told us he had gone to his
godfather’s, Maria Alexandrovna. We were told you had hidden yourself away
from us, Paul Alexandrovitch!” cried Natalia.

“Hidden myself?” said Paul, with a crooked sort of a smile. “What a
strange expression! Excuse me, Natalia Dimitrievna, but I never hide from
anyone; I have no cause to do so, that I know of! Nor do I ever hide
anyone else!” he added, looking significantly at Maria Alexandrovna.

Maria Alexandrovna trembled in her shoes.

“Surely this fool of a man is not up to anything disagreeable!” she
thought. “No, no! that would be worse than anything!” She looked curiously
and anxiously into his eyes.

“Is it true, Paul Alexandrovitch, that you have just been politely
dismissed?—the Government service, I mean, of course!” remarked the daring
Felisata Michaelovna, looking impertinently into his eyes.

“Dismissed! How dismissed? I’m simply changing my department, that’s all!
I am to be placed at Petersburg!” Mosgliakoff answered, drily.

“Oh! well, I congratulate you!” continued the bold young woman. “We were
alarmed to hear that you were trying for a—a place down here at Mordasoff.
The berths here are wretched, Paul Alexandrovitch—no good at all, I assure
you!”

“I don’t know—there’s a place as teacher at the school, vacant, I
believe,” remarked Natalia.

This was such a crude and palpable insinuation that even Mrs. Antipova was
ashamed of her friend, and kicked her, under the table.

“You don’t suppose Paul Alexandrovitch would accept the place vacated by a
wretched little schoolmaster!” said Felisata Michaelovna.

But Paul did not answer. He turned at this moment, and encountered
Afanassy Matveyevitch, just returning into the room. The latter offered
him his hand. Mosgliakoff, like a fool, looked beyond poor Afanassy, and
did not take his outstretched hand: annoyed to the limits of endurance, he
stepped up to Zina, and muttered, gazing angrily into her eyes:

“This is all thanks to you! Wait a bit; you shall see this very day
whether I am a fool or not!”

“Why put off the revelation? It is clear enough already!” said Zina,
aloud, staring contemptuously at her former lover.

Mosgliakoff hurriedly left her. He did not half like the loud tone she
spoke in.

“Have you been to your godfather’s?” asked Maria Alexandrovna at last,
determined to sound matters in this direction.

“No, I’ve just been with uncle.”

“With your uncle! What! have you just come from the prince now?”

“Oh—oh! and we were told the prince was asleep!” added Natalia
Dimitrievna, looking daggers at Maria Alexandrovna.

“Do not be disturbed about the prince, Natalia Dimitrievna,” replied Paul,
“he is awake now, and quite restored to his senses. He was persuaded to
drink a good deal too much wine, first at your house, and then here; so
that he quite lost his head, which never was too strong. However, I have
had a talk with him, and he now seems to have entirely recovered his
judgment, thank God! He is coming down directly to take his leave, Maria
Alexandrovna, and to thank you for all your kind hospitality; and
to-morrow morning early we are off to the Hermitage. Thence I shall myself
see him safe home to Donchanovo, in order that he may be far from the
temptation to further excesses like that of to-day. There I shall give him
over into the hands of Stepanida Matveyevna, who must be back at home by
this time, and who will assuredly never allow him another opportunity of
going on his travels, I’ll answer for that!”

So saying, Mosgliakoff stared angrily at Maria Alexandrovna. The latter
sat still, apparently dumb with amazement. I regret to say—it gives me
great pain to record it—that, perhaps for the first time in her life, my
heroine was decidedly alarmed.

“So the prince is off to-morrow morning! Dear me; why is that?” inquired
Natalia Dimitrievna, very sweetly, of Maria Alexandrovna.

“Yes. How is that?” asked Mrs. Antipova, in astonishment.

“Yes; dear me! how comes that, I wonder!” said two or three voices. “How
can that be? When we were told—dear me! How very strange!”

But the mistress of the house could not find words to reply in.

However, at this moment the general attention was distracted by a most
unwonted and eccentric episode. In the next room was heard a strange
noise—sharp exclamations and hurrying feet, which was followed by the
sudden appearance of Sophia Petrovna, the fidgety guest who had called
upon Maria Alexandrovna in the morning.

Sophia Petrovna was a very eccentric woman indeed—so much so that even the
good people of Mordasoff could not support her, and had lately voted her
out of society. I must observe that every evening, punctually at seven,
this lady was in the habit of having, what she called, “a snack,” and that
after this snack, which she declared was for the benefit of her liver, her
condition was well _emancipated_, to use no stronger term. She was in this
very condition, as described, now, as she appeared flinging herself into
Maria Alexandrovna’s salon.

“Oho! so this is how you treat me, Maria Alexandrovna!” she shouted at the
top of her voice. “Oh! don’t be afraid, I shall not inflict myself upon
you for more than a minute! I won’t sit down. I just came in to see if
what they said was true! Ah! so you go in for balls and receptions and
parties, and Sophia Petrovna is to sit at home alone, and knit stockings,
is she? You ask the whole town in, and leave me out, do you? Yes, and I
was _mon ange_, and ‘dear,’ and all the rest of it when I came in to warn
you of Natalia Dimitrievna having got hold of the prince! And now this
very Natalia Dimitrievna, whom you swore at like a pickpocket, and who was
just about as polite when she spoke of you, is here among your guests? Oh,
don’t mind _me_, Natalia Dimitrievna, _I_ don’t want your _chocolat à la
santé_ at a penny the ounce, six cups to the ounce! thanks, I can do
better at home; t’fu, a good deal better.”

“Evidently!” observed Natalia Dimitrievna.

“But—goodness gracious, Sophia Petrovna!” cried the hostess, flushing with
annoyance; “what is it all about? Do show a little common sense!”

“Oh, don’t bother about me, Maria Alexandrovna, thank you! I know all
about it—oh, dear me, yes!—_I_ know all about it!” cried Sophia Petrovna,
in her shrill squeaky voice, from among the crowd of guests who now
surrounded her, and who seemed to derive immense satisfaction from this
unexpected scene. “Oh, yes, I know all about it, I assure you! Your friend
Nastasia came over and told me all! You got hold of the old prince, made
him drunk and persuaded him to make an offer of marriage to your daughter
Zina—whom nobody else will marry; and I daresay you suppose you are going
to be a very great lady, indeed—a sort of duchess in lace and jewellery.
Tfu! Don’t flatter yourself; you may not be aware that I, too, am a
colonel’s lady! and if you don’t care to ask me to your betrothal parties,
you needn’t: I scorn and despise you and your parties too! I’ve seen
honester women than you, you know! I have dined at Countess
Zalichvatsky’s; a chief commissioner proposed for my hand! A lot _I_ care
for your invitations. Tfu!”

“Look here, Sophia Petrovna,” said Maria Alexandrovna, beside herself with
rage; “I assure you that people do not indulge in this sort of sally at
respectable houses; especially in _the condition you are now in_! And let
me tell you that if you do not immediately relieve me of your presence and
eloquence, I shall be obliged to take the matter into my own hands!”

“Oh, I know—you’ll get your people to turn me out! Don’t trouble
yourself—I know the way out! Good-bye,—marry your daughter to whom you
please, for all I care. And as for _you_, Natalia Dimitrievna, I will
thank you not to laugh at me! I may not have been asked here, but at all
events _I_ did not dance a can-can for the prince’s benefit. What may
_you_ be laughing at, Mrs. Antipova? I suppose you haven’t heard that your
_great friend_ Lushiloff has broken his leg?—he has just been taken home.
Tfu! Good-bye, Maria Alexandrovna—good luck to you! Tfu!”

Sophia Petrovna now disappeared. All the guests laughed; Maria
Alexandrovna was in a state of indescribable fury.

“I think the good lady must have been drinking!” said Natalia Dimitrievna,
sweetly.

“But what audacity!”

“_Quelle abominable femme!_”

“What a raving lunatic!”

“But really, what excessively improper things she says!”

“Yes, but what _could_ she have meant by a ’betrothal party?’ What sort of
a betrothal party is this?” asked Felisata Michaelovna innocently.

“It is too bad—too bad!” Maria Alexandrovna burst out at last. “It is just
such abominable women as this that sow nonsensical rumours about! it is
not the fact that there _are_ such women about, Felisata Michaelovna, that
is so surprising; the astonishing part of the matter is that ladies can be
found who support and encourage them, and believe their abominable tales,
and——”

“The prince, the prince!” cried all the guests at once.

“Oh, oh, here he is—the dear, dear prince!”

“Well, thank goodness, we shall hear all the particulars now!” murmured
Felisata Michaelovna to her neighbour.

CHAPTER XIII.

The prince entered and smiled benignly around.

All the agitation which his conversation with Mosgliakoff, a quarter of an
hour since, had aroused in his chicken-heart vanished at the sight of the
ladies.

Those gentle creatures received him with chirps and exclamations of joy.
Ladies always petted our old friend the prince, and were—as a
rule—wonderfully familiar with him. He had a way of amusing them with his
own individuality which was astonishing! Only this morning Felisata
Michaelovna had announced that she would sit on his knee with the greatest
pleasure, if he liked; “because he was such a dear old pet of an old man!”

Maria Alexandrovna fastened her eyes on him, to read—if she could—if it
were but the slightest indication of his state of mind, and to get a
possible idea for a way out of this horribly critical position. But there
was nothing to be made of _his_ face; it was just as before—just as ever
it was!

“Ah—h! here’s the prince at last!” cried several voices. “Oh, Prince, how
we have waited and waited for you!”

“With impatience, Prince, with impatience!” another chorus took up the
strain.

“Dear me, how very flat—tering!” said the old man, settling himself near
the tea-table.

The ladies immediately surrounded him. There only remained Natalia
Dimitrievna and Mrs. Antipova with the hostess. Afanassy stood and smiled
with great courtesy.

Mosgliakoff also smiled as he gazed defiantly at Zina, who, without taking
the slightest notice of him, took a chair near her father, and sat down at
the fireside.

“Prince, do tell us—is it true that you are about to leave us so soon?”
asked Felisata Michaelovna.

“Yes, yes, _mesdames_; I am going abroad almost im—mediately!”

“Abroad, Prince, abroad? Why, what can have caused you to take such a step
as that?” cried several ladies at once.

“Yes—yes, abroad,” said the prince; “and do you know it is principally for
the sake of the new i—deas——”

“How, new ideas? what new ideas—what does he mean?” the astonished ladies
asked of one another.

“Ye—yes. Quite so—new ideas!” repeated the prince with an air of deep
conviction, “everybody goes abroad now for new ideas, and I’m going too,
to see if I can pick any up.”

Up to this moment Maria Alexandrovna had listened to the conversation
observantly; but it now struck her that the prince had entirely forgotten
her existence—which would not do!

“Allow me, Prince, to introduce my husband, Afanassy Matveyevitch. He
hastened up from our country seat so soon as ever he heard of your arrival
in our house.”

Afanassy, under the impression that he was being praised, smiled amiably
and beamed all over.

“Very happy, very happy—Afanassy Mat—veyevitch!” said the prince. “Wait a
moment: your name reminds me of something, Afanassy Mat—veyevitch; ye—yes,
you are the man down at the village! Charming, charm—ing! Very glad, I’m
sure. Do you remember, my boy,” (to Paul) “the nice little rhyme we fitted
out to him? What was it?”

“Oh, I know, prince,” said Felisata Michaelovna—

“ ‘When the husband’s away
The wife will play!”

“Wasn’t that it? We had it last year at the theatre.”

“Yes, yes, quite so, ye—yes, ‘the wife will play!’ That’s it: charming,
charming. So you are that ve—ry man? Dear me, I’m _very_ glad, I’m sure,”
said the prince, stretching out his hand, but not rising from his chair.
“Dear me, and how is your health, my dear sir?”

“H’m!”

“Oh, he’s quite well, thank you, prince, _quite_ well,” answered Maria
Alexandrovna quickly.

“Ye—yes, I see he is—he looks it! And are you still at the vill—age? Dear
me, very pleased, I’m sure; why, how red he looks, and he’s always
laugh—ing.”

Afanassy smiled and bowed, and even “scraped,” as the prince spoke, but at
the last observation he suddenly, and without warning or apparent reason,
burst into loud fits of laughter.

The ladies were delighted. Zina flushed up, and with flashing eyes darted
a look at her mother, who, in her turn, was boiling over with rage.

It was time to change the conversation.

“Did you have a nice nap, prince?” she inquired in honied accents; but at
the same time giving Afanassy to understand, with very un-honied looks
that he might go—well, anywhere!

“Oh, I slept won—derfully, wonderfully? And do you know, I had such a most
fascinating, be—witching dream!”

“A dream? how delightful! I do so love to hear people tell their dreams,”
cried Felisata.

“Oh, a fas—cinating dream,” stammered the old man again, “quite
be—witching, but all the more a dead secret for that very reas—on.”

“Oh, Prince, you don’t mean to say you can’t tell us?” said Mrs. Antipova.
“I suppose it’s an _extraordinary_ dream, isn’t it?”

“A dead secret!” repeated the prince, purposely whetting the curiosity of
the ladies, and enjoying the fun.

“Then it _must_ be interesting, oh, _dreadfully_ interesting,” cried other
ladies.

“I don’t mind taking a bet that the prince dreamed that he was kneeling at
some lovely woman’s feet and making a declaration of love,” said Felisata
Michaelovna. “Confess, now, prince, that it was so? confess, dear prince,
confess.”

“Yes, Prince, confess!” the chorus took up the cry. The old man listened
solemnly until the last voice was hushed. The ladies’ guesswork flattered
his vanity wonderfully; he was as pleased as he could be. “Though I did
say that my dream was a dead se—cret,” he replied at last, “still I am
obliged to confess, dear lady, that to my great as—tonishment you have
almost exactly guessed it.”

“I’ve guessed it, I’ve guessed it,” cried Felisata, in a rapture of joy.
“Well, prince, say what you like, but it’s your _plain_ duty to tell us
the name of your beauty; come now, _isn’t_ it?”

“Of course, of course, prince.”

“Is she in this town?”

“Dear prince, _do_ tell us.”

“_Darling_ prince, do, _do_ tell us; you positively _must_,” was heard on
all sides.

“_Mesdames, mes—dames_; if you must know, I will go so far as to say that
it is the most charming, and be—witching, and vir—tuous lady I know,” said
the prince, unctuously.

“The most bewitching? and belonging to this place? Who _can_ it be?” cried
the ladies, interchanging looks and signs.

“Why, of course, the young lady who is considered the reigning beauty
here,” remarked Natalia Dimitrievna, rubbing her hands and looking hard at
Zina with those cat’s-eyes of hers. All joined her in staring at Zina.

“But, prince, if you dream those sort of things, why should not you marry
somebody _bona fide_?” asked Felisata, looking around her with a
significant expression.

“We would marry you off beautifully, prince!” said somebody else.

“Oh, dear prince, _do_ marry!” chirped another.

“Marry, marry, _do_ marry!” was now the cry on all sides.

“Ye—yes. Why should I not ma—arry!” said the old man, confused and
bewildered with all the cries and exclamations around him.

“Uncle!” cried Mosgliakoff.

“Ye—yes, my boy, quite so; I un—derstand what you mean. I may as well tell
you, ladies, that I am not in a position to marry again; and having passed
one most delightful evening with our fascinating hostess, I must start
away to-morrow to the Hermitage, and then I shall go straight off abroad,
and study the question of the enlightenment of Europe.”

Zina shuddered, and looked over at her mother with an expression of
unspeakable anguish.

But Maria Alexandrovna had now made up her mind how to act; all this while
she had played a mere waiting game, observing closely and carefully all
that was said or done, although she could see only too clearly that her
plans were undermined, and that her foes had come about her in numbers
which were too great to be altogether pleasant.

At last, however, she comprehended the situation, she thought, completely.
She had gauged how the matter stood in all its branches, and she
determined to slay the hundred-headed hydra at one fell blow!

With great majesty, then, she rose from her seat, and approached the
tea-table, stalking across the room with firm and dignified tread, as she
looked around upon her pigmy foes. The fire of inspiration blazed in her
eyes. She resolved to smite once, and annihilate this vile nest of
poisonous scandal-adders: to destroy the miserable Mosgliakoff, as though
he were a blackbeetle, and with one triumphant blow to reassert all her
influence over this miserable old idiot-prince!

Some audacity was requisite for such a performance, of course; but Maria
Alexandrovna had not even to put her hand in her pocket for a supply of
that particular commodity.

“_Mesdames_,” she began, solemnly, and with much dignity (Maria
Alexandrovna was always a great admirer of solemnity); “_mesdames_, I have
been a listener to your conversation—to your witty remarks and merry
jokes—long enough, and I consider that my turn has come, at last, to put
in a word in contribution.

“You are aware we have all met here accidentally (to my great joy, I must
add—to my very great joy); but, though I should be the first to refuse to
divulge a family secret before the strictest rules of ordinary propriety
rendered such a revelation necessary, yet, as my dear guest here appears
to me to have given us to understand, by covert hints and insinuations,
that he is not averse to the matter becoming common property (he will
forgive me if I have mistaken his intentions!)—I cannot help feeling that
the prince is not only not averse, but actually desires me to make known
our great family secret. Am I right, Prince?”

“Ye—yes, quite so, quite so! Very glad, ve—ry glad, I’m sure!” said the
prince, who had not the remotest idea what the good lady was talking
about!

Maria Alexandrovna, for greater effect, now paused to take breath, and
looked solemnly and proudly around upon the assembled guests, all of whom
were now listening with greedy but slightly disturbed curiosity to what
their hostess was about to reveal to them.

Mosgliakoff shuddered; Zina flushed up, and arose from her seat; Afanassy,
seeing that something important was about to happen, blew his nose
violently, in order to be ready for any emergency.

“Yes, ladies; I am ready—nay, gratified—to entrust my family secret to
your keeping!——This evening, the prince, overcome by the beauty and
virtues of my daughter, has done her the honour of proposing to me for her
hand. Prince,” she concluded, in trembling tearful accents, “dear Prince;
you must not, you cannot blame me for my candour! It is only my
overwhelming joy that could have torn this dear secret prematurely from my
heart: and what mother is there who will blame me in such a case as this?”

Words fail me to describe the effect produced by this most unexpected
sally on the part of Maria Alexandrovna. All present appeared to be struck
dumb with amazement. These perfidious guests, who had thought to frighten
Maria Alexandrovna by showing her that they knew her secret; who thought
to annihilate her by the premature revelation of that secret; who thought
to overwhelm her, for the present, with their hints and insinuations;
these guests were themselves struck down and pulverized by this fearless
candour on her part! Such audacious frankness argued the consciousness of
strength.

“So that the prince actually, and of his own free-will is really going to
marry Zina? So they did not drink and bully and swindle him into it? So he
is not to be married burglariously and forcibly? So Maria Alexandrovna is
not afraid of anybody? Then we can’t knock this marriage on the head—since
the prince is not being married compulsorily!”

Such were the questions and exclamations the visitors now put to
themselves and each other.

But very soon the whispers which the hostess’s words had awakened all over
the room, suddenly changed to chirps and exclamations of joy.

Natalia Dimitrievna was the first to come forward and embrace Maria
Alexandrovna; then came Mrs. Antipova; next Felisata Michaelovna. All
present were shortly on their feet and moving about, changing places. Many
of the ladies were pale with rage. Some began to congratulate Zina, who
was confused enough without; some attached themselves to the wretched
Afanassy Matveyevitch. Maria Alexandrovna stretched her arms theatrically,
and embraced her daughter—almost by force.

The prince alone gazed upon the company with a sort of confused wonder;
but he smiled on as before. He seemed to be pleased with the scene. At
sight of the mother and daughter embracing, he took out his handkerchief,
and wiped his eye, in the corner of which there really was a tear.

Of course the company fell upon him with their congratulations before very
long.

“I congratulate you, Prince! I congratulate you!” came from all sides at
once.

“So you _are_ going to be married, Prince?”

“So you _really are_ going to marry?”

“Dear Prince! You really are to be married, then?”

“Ye—yes, ye—yes; quite so, quite so!” replied the old fellow, delighted
beyond measure with all the rapture and atmosphere of congratulation
around him; “and I confess what I like best of all, is the ve—ery kind
in—terest you all take in me! I shall never forget it, never for—get it!
Charming! charming! You have brought the tears to my eyes!”

“Kiss me, prince!” cried Felisata Michaelovna, in stentorian tones.

“And I con—fess further,” continued the Prince, as well as the constant
physical interruptions from all sides allowed him; “I confess I am beyond
measure as—tonished that Maria Alexandrovna, our revered hostess, should
have had the extraordinary penet—ration to guess my dream! She might have
dreamed it herself, instead of me. Ex—traordinary perspicacity!
Won—derful, wonderful!”

“Oh, prince; your dream again!”

“Oh, come, prince! admit—confess!” cried one and all.

“Yes, prince, it is no use concealing it now; it is time we divulged this
secret of ours!” said Maria Alexandrovna, severely and decidedly. “I quite
entered into your refined, allegorical manner; the delightful delicacy
with which you gave me to understand, by means of subtle insinuations,
that you wished the fact of your engagement to be made known. Yes, ladies,
it is all true! This very evening the prince knelt at my daughter’s feet,
and actually, and by no means in a dream, made a solemn proposal of
marriage to her!”

“Yes—yes, quite so! just exactly like that; and under the very
cir—cumstances she describes: just like re—ality,” said the old man. “My
dear young lady,” he continued, bowing with his greatest courtesy to Zina,
who had by no means recovered from her amazement as yet; “my dear young
lady, I swear to you, I should never have dared thus to bring your name
into pro—minence, if others had not done so before me! It was a most
be—witching dream! a be—witching dream! and I am doubly happy that I have
been per—mitted to describe it. Charming—charming!”

“Dear me! how very curious it is: he insists on sticking to his idea about
a dream!” whispered Mrs. Antipova to the now slightly paling Maria
Alexandrovna. Alas! that great woman had felt her heart beating more
quickly than she liked without this last little reminder!

“What does it mean?” whispered the ladies among themselves.

“Excuse me, prince,” began Maria Alexandrovna, with a miserable attempt at
a smile, “but I confess you astonish me a great deal! What is this strange
idea of yours about a dream? I confess I had thought you were joking up to
this moment; but—if it be a joke on your part, it is exceedingly out of
place! I should like—I am _anxious_ to ascribe your conduct to absence of
mind, but——”

“Yes; it may really be a case of absence of mind!” put in Natalia
Dimitrievna in a whisper.

“Yes—yes—of course, quite so; it may easily be absence of mind!” confirmed
the prince, who clearly did not in the least comprehend what they were
trying to get out of him; “and with regard to this subject, let me tell
you a little an—ecdote. I was asked to a funeral at Petersburg, and I went
and made a little mis—take about it and thought it was a birthday par—ty!
So I brought a lovely bouquet of cam—ellias! When I came in and saw the
master of the house lying in state on a table, I didn’t know where to
lo—ok, or what to do with my ca—mellias, I assure you!”

“Yes; but, Prince, this is not the moment for stories!” observed Maria
Alexandrovna, with great annoyance. “Of course, my daughter has no need to
beat up a husband; but at the same time, I must repeat that you yourself
here, just by the piano, made her an offer of marriage. _I_ did not ask
you to do it! I may say I was amazed to hear it! However, since the
episode of your proposal, I may say that I have thought of nothing else;
and I have only waited for your appearance to talk the matter over with
you. But now—well, I am a mother, and this is my daughter. You speak of a
dream. I supposed, naturally, that you were anxious to make your
engagement known by the medium of an allegory. Well, I am perfectly well
aware that someone may have thought fit to confuse your mind on this
matter; in fact, I may say that I have my suspicions as to the individual
responsible for such a——however, kindly explain yourself, Prince; explain
yourself quickly and satisfactorily. You cannot be permitted to jest in
this fashion in a respectable house.”

“Ye—yes—quite so, quite so; one should not jest in respectable houses,”
remarked the prince, still bewildered, but beginning gradually to grow a
little disconcerted.

“But that is no answer to my question, Prince. I ask you to reply
categorically. I insist upon your confirming—confirming here and at
once—the fact that this very evening you made a proposal of marriage to my
daughter!”

“Quite so—quite so; I am ready to confirm that! But I have told the
com—pany all about it, and Felisata Michaelovna ac—tually guessed my
dream!”

“_Not dream!_ it was _not_ a dream!” shouted Maria Alexandrovna furiously.
“It was not a dream, Prince, but you were wide awake. Do you hear?
Awake—you were _awake_!”

“Awake?” cried the prince, rising from his chair in astonishment. “Well,
there you are, my friend; it has come about just as you said,” he added,
turning to Mosgliakoff. “But I assure you, most es—teemed Maria
Alexandrovna, that you are under a del—usion. I am quite convinced that I
saw the whole scene in a dream!”

“Goodness gracious!” cried Maria Alexandrovna.

“Do not disturb yourself, dear Maria Alexandrovna,” said Natalia
Dimitrievna, “probably the prince has forgotten; he will recollect himself
by and by.”

“I am astonished at you, Natalia Dimitrievna!” said the now furious
hostess. “As if people forget this sort of thing! Excuse me, Prince, but
are you laughing at us, or what are you doing? Are you trying to act one
of Dumas’ heroes, or Lauzun or Ferlacourt, or somebody? But, if you will
excuse me saying so, you are a good deal too old for that sort of thing,
and I assure you, your amiable little play-acting will not do here! My
daughter is not a French viscountess! I tell you, this very evening and in
this very spot here, my daughter sang a ballad to you, and you, amazed at
the beauty of her singing, went down on your knees and made her a proposal
of marriage. I am not talking in my sleep, am I? Surely I am wide awake?
Speak, Prince, am I asleep, or not?”

“Ye—yes, of course, of course—quite so. I don’t know,” said the bewildered
old man. “I mean, I don’t think I am drea—ming now; but, a little while
ago I _was_ asleep, you see; and while asleep I had this dream, that I——”

“Goodness me, Prince, I tell you you were _not_ dreaming. _Not dreaming_,
do you hear? _Not_ dreaming! What on earth do you mean? Are you raving,
Prince, or what?”

“Ye—yes; deuce only knows. I don’t know! It seems to me I’m getting
be—wildered,” said the prince, looking around him in a state of
considerable mental perturbation.

“But, my dear Prince, how can you possibly have _dreamed_ this, when I can
tell you all the minutest details of your proposal and of the
circumstances attending it? You have not told any of us of these details.
How could I possibly have known what you dreamed?”

“But, perhaps the prince _did_ tell someone of his dream, in detail,”
remarked Natalia Dimitrievna.

“Ye—yes, quite so—quite so! Perhaps I did tell someone all about my dream,
in detail,” said the now completely lost and bewildered prince.

“Here’s a nice comedy!” whispered Felisata Michaelovna to her neighbour.

“My goodness me! this is too much for _anybody’s_ patience!” cried Maria
Alexandrovna, beside herself with helpless rage. “Do you hear me, Prince?
She sang you a ballad—_sang you a ballad_! Surely you didn’t dream that
too?”

“Certainly—cer—tainly, quite so. It really did seem to me that she sang me
a ballad,” murmured the prince; and a ray of recollection seemed to flash
across his face. “My friend,” he continued, addressing Mosgliakoff, “I
believe I forgot to tell you, there was a ballad sung—a ballad all about
castles and knights; and some trou—badour or other came in. Of course, of
course, I remember it all quite well. I recoll—ect I did turn over the
ballad. It puzzles me much, for now it seems as though I had really heard
the ballad, and not dreamt it all.”

“I confess, uncle,” said Mosgliakoff, as calmly as he could, though his
voice shook with agitation, “I confess I do not see any difficulty in
bringing your actual experience and your dream into strict conformity; it
is consistent enough. You probably _did_ hear the ballad. Miss Zenaida
sings beautifully; probably you all adjourned into this room and Zenaida
Afanassievna sang you the song. Of course, I was not there myself, but in
all probability this ballad reminded you of old times; very likely it
reminded you of that very vicomtesse with whom you used once to sing, and
of whom you were speaking to-day; well, and then, when you went up for
your nap and lay down, thinking of the delightful impressions made upon
you by the ballad and all, you dreamed that you were in love and made an
offer of marriage to the lady who had inspired you with that feeling.”

Maria Alexandrovna was struck dumb by this display of barefaced audacity.

“Why, ye—yes, my boy, yes, of course; that’s exactly how it really wa—as!”
cried the prince, in an ecstasy of delight. “Of course it was the
de—lightful impressions that caused me to dream it. I certainly re—member
the song; and then I went away and dreamed about my pro—posal, and that I
really wished to marry! The viscountess was there too. How beautifully you
have unravelled the diffi—culty, my dear boy. Well, now I am quite
convinced that it was all a dream. Maria Alex—androvna! I assure you, you
are under a delu—usion: it was a dream. I should not think of trifling
with your feelings otherwise.”

“Oh, indeed! Now I perceive very clearly whom we have to thank for making
this dirty mess of our affairs!” cried Maria Alexandrovna, beside herself
with rage, and turning to Mosgliakoff: “You are the man, sir—the
_dishonest_ person. It is you who stirred up this mud! It is you that
puzzled an unhappy old idiot into this eccentric behaviour, because you
yourself were rejected! But we shall be quits, my friend, for this
offence! You shall pay, you shall pay! Wait a bit, my dishonest friend;
wait a bit!”

“Maria Alexandrovna!” cried Mosgliakoff, blushing in his turn until he
looked as red as a boiled lobster, “your words are so, so——to such an
extent—I really don’t know how to express my opinion of you. No lady would
ever permit herself to—to—. At all events I am but protecting my relative.
You must allow that to _allure_ an old man like this is, is——.”

“Quite so, quite so; _allure_,” began the prince, trying to hide himself
behind Mosgliakoff.

“Afanassy Matveyevitch!” cried Maria Alexandrovna, in unnatural tones; “do
you hear, sir, how these people are shaming and insulting me? Have you
_quite_ exempted yourself from all the responsibilities of a man? Or are
you actually a—a wooden block, instead of the father of a family? What do
you stand blinking there for? eh! Any other husband would have wiped out
such an insult to his family with the blood of the offender long ago.”

“Wife!” began Afanassy, solemnly, delighted, and proud to find that a need
for him had sprung up for once in his life. “Wife, are you quite certain,
now, that _you_ did not dream all this? You might so easily have fallen
asleep and dreamed it, and then muddled it all up with what really
happened, you know, and so——”

But Afanassy Matveyevitch was never destined to complete his ingenious,
but unlucky guess.

Up to this moment the guests had all restrained themselves, and had
managed, cleverly enough, to keep up an appearance of solid and judicial
interest in the proceedings. But at the first sound, almost, of Afanassy’s
voice, a burst of uncontrollable laughter rose like a tempest from all
parts of the room.

Maria Alexandrovna, forgetting all the laws of propriety in her fury,
tried to rush at her unlucky consort; but she was held back by force, or,
doubtless, she would have scratched out that gentleman’s eyes.

Natalia Dimitrievna took advantage of the occasion to add a little, if
only a little, drop more of poison to the bitter cup.

“But, dear Maria Alexandrovna,” she said, in the sweetest honied tones,
“perhaps it may be that it really _was_ so, as your husband suggests, and
that you are actually under a strange delusion?”

“How! What was a delusion?” cried Maria Alexandrovna, not quite catching
the remark.

“Why, my dear Maria, I was saying, _mightn’t_ it have been so, dear, after
all? These sort of things _do_ happen sometimes, you know!”

“_What_ sort of things do happen, eh? What are you trying to do with me?
What am I to make of you?”

“Why, perhaps, dear, you really _did_ dream it all!”

“What? _dream_ it! _I_ dreamed it? And you dare suggest such a thing to
me—straight to my face?”

“Oh, why not? Perhaps it really was the case,” observed Felisata
Michaelovna.

“Ye—yes, quite so, very likely it act—ually _was_ the case,” muttered the
old prince.

“He, too—gracious Heaven!” cried poor Maria Alexandrovna, wringing her
hands.

“Dear me, how you do worry yourself, Maria Alexandrovna. You should
remember that dreams are sent us by a good Providence. If Providence so
wills it, there is no more to be said. Providence gives the word, and we
can neither weep nor be angry at its dictum.”

“Quite so, quite so. We can’t be a—angry about it,” observed the prince.

“Look here; do you take me for a lunatic, or not?” said Maria
Alexandrovna. She spoke with difficulty, so dreadfully was she panting
with fury. It was more than flesh and blood could stand. She hurriedly
grasped a chair, and fell fainting into it. There was a scene of great
excitement.

“She has fainted in obedience to the laws of propriety!” observed Natalia
Dimitrievna to Mrs. Antipova. But at this moment—at this moment when the
general bewilderment and confusion had reached its height, and when the
scene was strained to the last possible point of excitement, another actor
suddenly stepped to the front; one who had been silent hitherto, but who
immediately threw quite a different complexion on the scene.

CHAPTER XIV.

Zenaida, or Zina Afanassievna, was an individual of an extremely romantic
turn of mind.

I don’t know whether it really was that she had read too much of “that
fool Shakespeare,” with her “little tutor fellow,” as Maria Alexandrovna
insisted; but, at all events she was very romantic. However, never, in all
her experience of Mordasoff life, had Zina before made such an
ultra-romantic, or perhaps I might call it _heroic_, display as on the
occasion of the sally which I am now about to describe.

Pale, and with resolution in her eyes, yet almost trembling with
agitation, and wonderfully beautiful in her anger and scorn, she stepped
to the front.

Gazing around at all, defiantly, she approached her mother in the midst of
the sudden silence which had fallen on all present. Her mother roused
herself from her swoon at the first indication of a projected movement on
Zina’s part, and she now opened her eyes.

“Mamma!” cried Zina, “why should we deceive anyone? Why befoul ourselves
with more lies? Everything is so foul already that surely it is not worth
while to bemean ourselves any further by attempting to gloss over the
filth!”

“Zina, Zina! what are you thinking of? _Do_ recollect yourself!” cried
Maria Alexandrovna, frightened out of her wits, and jumping briskly up
from her chair.

“I told you, mamma—I told you before, that I should not be able to last
out the length of this shameful and ignominious business!” continued Zina.
“Surely we need no further bemean and befoul ourselves! I will take it all
on myself, mamma. I am the basest of all, for lending myself, of my own
free will, to this abominable intrigue! You are my mother; you love me, I
know, and you wished to arrange matters for my happiness, as you thought
best, and according to your lights. _Your_ conduct, therefore, is
pardonable; but mine! oh, no! never, never!”

“Zina, Zina! surely you are not going to tell the whole story? Oh! woe,
woe! I felt that the knife would pierce my heart!”

“Yes, mamma, I shall tell all; I am disgraced, you—we all of us are
disgraced——”

“Zina, you are exaggerating! you are beside yourself; and you don’t know
what you are saying. And why say anything about it? The ignominy and
disgrace is not on our side, dear child; I will show in a moment that it
is not on our side!”

“No, mamma, no!” cried Zina, with a quiver of rage in her voice, “I do not
wish to remain silent any longer before these—persons, whose opinion I
despise, and who have come here for the purpose of laughing at us. I do
not wish to stand insult from any one of them; none of them have any right
to throw dirt at me; every single one of them would be ready at any moment
to do things thirty times as bad as anything either I or you have done or
would do! Dare they, _can_ they constitute themselves our judges?”

“Listen to that!”

“There’s a pretty little speech for you!”

“Why, that’s _us_ she’s abusing”!

“A nice sort of creature she is herself!”

These and other such-like exclamations greeted the conclusion of Zina’s
speech.

“Oh, she simply doesn’t know what she’s talking about!” observed Natalia
Dimitrievna.

We will make a digression, and remark that Natalia Dimitrievna was quite
right there!

For if Zina did not consider these women competent to judge herself, why
should she trouble herself to make those exposures and admissions which
she proposed to reveal in their presence? Zina was in much too great a
hurry. (She always was,—so the best heads in Mordasoff had agreed!) All
might have been set right; all might have been satisfactorily arranged!
Maria Alexandrovna was a great deal to blame this night, too! She had been
too much “in a hurry,” like her daughter,—and too arrogant! She should
have simply raised the laugh at the old prince’s expense, and turned him
out of the house! But Zina, in despite of all common sense (as indicated
above), and of the sage opinions of all Mordasoff, addressed herself to
the prince:

“Prince,” she said to the old man, who actually rose from his arm-chair to
show his respect for the speaker, so much was he struck by her at this
moment!—“Prince forgive us; we have deceived you; we entrapped you——”

“_Will_ you be quiet, you wretched girl?” cried Maria Alexandrovna, wild
with rage.

“My dear young lady—my dear child, my darling child!” murmured the
admiring prince.

But the proud haughty character of Zina had led her on to cross the
barrier of all propriety;—she even forgot her own mother who lay fainting
at her feet—a victim to the self-exposure her daughter indulged in.

“Yes, prince, we both cheated you. Mamma was in fault in that she
determined that I must marry you; and I in that I consented thereto. We
filled you with wine; I sang to you and postured and posed for your
admiration. We tricked you, a weak defenceless old man, we _tricked_ you
(as Mr. Mosgliakoff would express it!) for the sake of your wealth, and
your rank. All this was shockingly mean, and I freely admit the fact. But
I swear to you, Prince, that I consented to all this baseness from motives
which were _not_ base. I wished,—but what a wretch I am! it is doubly mean
to justify one’s conduct in such a case as this! But I will tell you,
Prince, that if I had accepted anything from you, I should have made it up
to you for it, by being your plaything, your servant, your—your ballet
dancer, your slave—anything you wished. I had sworn to this, and I should
have kept my oath.”

A severe spasm at the throat stopped her for a moment; while all the
guests sat and listened like so many blocks of wood, their eyes and mouths
wide open.

This unexpected, and to them perfectly unintelligible sally on Zina’s part
had utterly confounded them. The old prince alone was touched to tears,
though he did not understand half that Zina said.

“But I will marry you, my beau—t—iful child, I _will_ marry you, if you
like”—he murmured, “and est—eem it a great honour, too! But I as—sure you
it was all a dream,—what does it mat—ter what I dream? Why should you take
it so to heart? I don’t seem to under—stand it all; please explain, my
dear friend, what it all means!” he added, to Paul.

“As for you, Pavel Alexandrovitch,” Zina recommenced, also turning to
Mosgliakoff, “you whom I had made up my mind, at one time, to look upon as
my future husband; you who have now so cruelly revenged yourself upon me;
must you needs have allied yourself to these people here, whose object at
all times is to humiliate and shame me? And you said that you loved me!
However, it is not for me to preach moralities to you, for I am worse than
all! I wronged you, distinctly, in holding out false hopes and half
promises. I never loved you, and if I had agreed to be your wife, it would
have been solely with the view of getting away from here, out of this
accursed town, and free of all this meanness and baseness. However, I
swear to you that had I married you, I should have been a good and
faithful wife! You have taken a cruel vengeance upon me, and if that
flatters your pride, then——”

“Zina!” cried Mosgliakoff.

“If you still hate me——”

“Zina!!”

“If you ever did love me——”

“Zenaida Afanassievna!”

“Zina, Zina—my child!” cried Maria Alexandrovna.

“I am a blackguard, Zina—a blackguard, and nothing else!” cried
Mosgliakoff; while all the assembled ladies gave way to violent agitation.
Cries of amazement and of wrath broke upon the silence; but Mosgliakoff
himself stood speechless and miserable, without a thought and without a
word to plead for him!

“I am an ass, Zina,” he cried at last, in an outburst of wild despair,—“an
ass! oh far, far worse than an ass. But I will prove to you, Zina, that
even an ass can behave like a generous human being! Uncle, I cheated you!
I, I—it was I who cheated you: you were _not_ asleep,—you were wide awake
when you made this lady an offer of marriage! And I—scoundrel that I
was—out of revenge because I was rejected by her myself, persuaded you
that you had dreamed it all!”

“Dear me, what wonderful and interesting revelations we are being treated
to now!” whispered Natalia to Mrs. Antipova.

“My dear friend,” replied the prince, “com—pose yourself, do! I assure
you—you quite start—led me with that sudden ex—clamation of yours!
Besides, you are labouring under a delusion;—I will marr—y the lady, of
course, if ne—cessary. But you told me, yourself, it was all a dre—eam!”

“Oh, how am I to tell you? Do show me, somebody, how to explain to him!
Uncle, uncle! this is an important matter—a most important family affair!
Think of that, uncle—just try to realise that——”

“Wait a bit, my boy—wait a bit: let me think! First there was my coachman,
Theophile——”

“Oh, never mind Theophile now, for goodness sake!”

“Of course we need not waste time over The—ophile. Well—then came
Na—poleon; and then we seemed to be sitting at tea, and some la—dy came
and ate up all our su—gar!”

“But, uncle!” cried Mosgliakoff, at his wits’ end, “it was Maria
Alexandrovna herself told us that anecdote about Natalia Dimitrievna! I
was here myself and heard it!—I was a blackguard, and listened at the
keyhole!”

“How, Maria Alexandrovna!” cried Natalia, “you’ve told the prince too,
have you, that I stole sugar out of your basin? So I come to you to steal
your sugar, do I, eh! do I?”

“Get away from me!” cried Maria Alexandrovna, with the abandonment of
utter despair.

“Oh, dear no! I shall do nothing of the sort, Maria Alexandrovna! I steal
your sugar, do I? I tell you you shall not talk of me like that, madam—you
dare not! I have long suspected you of spreading this sort of rubbish
abroad about me! Sophia Petrovna came and told me all about it. So I stole
your sugar, did I, eh?”

“But, my dear la—dies!” said the prince, “it was only part of a dream!
What do my dreams matter?——”

“Great tub of a woman!” muttered Maria Alexandrovna through her teeth.

“What! what! I’m a tub, too, am I?” shrieked Natalia Dimitrievna. “And
what are you yourself, pray? Oh, I have long known that you call me a tub,
madam. Never mind!—at all events my husband is a man, madam, and not a
fool, like yours!”

“Ye—yes—quite so! I remember there _was_ something about a tub, too!”
murmured the old man, with a vague recollection of his late conversation
with Maria Alexandrovna.

“What—_you_, too? _you_ join in abusing a respectable woman of noble
extraction, do you? How dare you call me names, prince—you wretched old
one-legged misery! I’m a tub am I, you one-legged old abomination?”

“Wha—at, madam, I one-legged?”

“Yes—one-legged and toothless, sir; that’s what you are!”

“Yes, and one-eyed too!” shouted Maria Alexandrovna.

“And what’s more, you wear stays instead of having your own ribs!” added
Natalia Dimitrievna.

“His face is all on wire springs!”

“He hasn’t a hair of his own to swear by!”

“Even the old fool’s moustache is stuck on!” put in Maria Alexandrovna.

“Well, Ma—arie Alexandrovna, give me the credit of having a nose of my
ve—ry own, at all events!” said the prince, overwhelmed with confusion
under these unexpected disclosures. “My friend, it must have been you
betrayed me! _you_ must have told them that my hair is stuck on?”

“Uncle, what an idea, I——!”

“My dear boy, I can’t stay here any lon—ger, take me away
somewhere—_quelle société_! Where have you brought me to, eh?—Gracious
Hea—eaven, what dreadful soc—iety!”

“Idiot! scoundrel!” shrieked Maria Alexandrovna.

“Goodness!” said the unfortunate old prince. “I can’t quite remember just
now what I came here for at all—I suppose I shall reme—mber directly. Take
me away, quick, my boy, or I shall be torn to pieces here! Besides, I have
an i—dea that I want to make a note of——”

“Come along, uncle—it isn’t very late; I’ll take you over to an hotel at
once, and I’ll move over my own things too.”

“Ye—yes, of course, a ho—tel! Good-bye, my charming child; you alone,
you—are the only vir—tuous one of them all; you are a no—oble child.
Good-bye, my charming girl! Come along, my friend;—oh, good gra—cious,
what people!”

I will not attempt to describe the end of this disagreeable scene, after
the prince’s departure.

The guests separated in a hurricane of scolding and abuse and mutual
vituperation, and Maria Alexandrovna was at last left alone amid the ruins
and relics of her departed glory.

Alas, alas! Power, glory, weight—all had disappeared in this one
unfortunate evening. Maria Alexandrovna quite realised that there was no
chance of her ever again mounting to the height from which she had now
fallen. Her long preeminence and despotism over society in general had
collapsed.

What remained to her? Philosophy? She was wild with the madness of despair
all night! Zina was dishonoured—scandals would circulate, never-ceasing
scandals; and—oh! it was dreadful!

As a faithful historian, I must record that poor Afanassy was the
scapegoat this night; he “caught it” so terribly that he eventually
disappeared; he had hidden himself in the garret, and was there starved to
death almost, with cold, all night.

The morning came at last; but it brought nothing good with it! Misfortunes
never come singly.

CHAPTER XV.

If fate makes up its mind to visit anyone with misfortune, there is no end
to its malice! This fact has often been remarked by thinkers; and, as if
the ignominy of last night were not enough, the same malicious destiny had
prepared for this family more, yea, and worse—evils to come!

By ten o’clock in the morning a strange and almost incredible rumour was
in full swing all over the town: it was received by society, of course,
with full measure of spiteful joy, just as we all love to receive
delightfully scandalous stories of anyone about us.

“To lose one’s sense of shame to such an extent!” people said one to
another.

“To humiliate oneself so, and to neglect the first rules of propriety! To
loose the bands of decency altogether like this, really!” etc., etc.

But here is what had happened.

Early in the morning, something after six o’clock, a poor piteous-looking
old woman came hurriedly to the door of Maria Alexandrovna’s house, and
begged the maid to wake Miss Zina up as quickly, as possible,—_only_ Miss
Zina, and very quietly, so that her mother should not hear of it, if
possible.

Zina, pale and miserable, ran out to the old woman immediately.

The latter fell at Zina’s feet and kissed them and begged her with tears
to come with her at once to see poor Vaísia, her son, who had been so bad,
_so_ bad all night that she did not think he could live another day.

The old woman told Zina that Vaísia had sent to beg her to come and bid
him farewell in this his death hour: he conjured her to come by all the
blessed angels, and by all their past—otherwise he must die in despair.

Zina at once decided to go, in spite of the fact that, by so doing, she
would be justifying all the scandal and slanders disseminated about her in
former days, as to the intercepted letter, her visits to him, and so on.
Without a word to her mother, then, she donned her cloak and started off
with the old woman, passing through the whole length of the town, into one
of the poorest slums of Mordasof—and stopped at a little low wretched
house, with small miserable windows, and snow piled round the basement for
warmth.

In this house, in a tiny room, more than half of which was occupied by an
enormous stove, on a wretched bed, and covered with a miserably thin
quilt, lay a young man, pale and haggard: his eyes were ablaze with the
fire of fever, his hands were dry and thin, and he was breathing with
difficulty and very hoarsely. He looked as though he might have been
handsome once, but disease had put its finger on his features and made
them dreadful to look upon and sad withal, as are so many dying
consumptive patients’ faces.

His old mother who had fed herself for a year past with the conviction
that her son would recover, now saw at last that Vaísia was not to live.
She stood over him, bowed down with her grief—tearless, and looked and
looked, and could not look enough; and felt, but could not realize, that
this dear son of hers must in a few days be buried in the miserable
Mordasof churchyard, far down beneath the snow and frozen earth!

But Vaísia was not looking at her at this moment! His poor suffering face
was at rest now, and happy; for he saw before him the dear image which he
had thought of, dreamed of, and loved through all the long sad nights of
his illness, for the last year and a half! He realised that she forgave
him, and had come, like an angel of God, to tell him of her forgiveness,
here, on his deathbed.

She pressed his hands, wept over him, stood and smiled over him, looked at
him once more with those wonderful eyes of hers, and all the past, the
undying ever-present past rose up before the mind’s eye of the dying man.
The spark of life flashed up again in his soul, as though to show, now
that it was about to die out for ever on this earth, how hard, how hard it
was to see so sweet a light fade away.

“Zina, Zina!” he said, “my Zina, do not weep; don’t grieve, Zina, don’t
remind me that I must die! Let me gaze at you, so—so,—and feel that our
two souls have come together once more—that you have forgiven me! Let me
kiss your dear hands again, as I used, and so let me die without noticing
the approach of death.

“How thin you have grown, Zina! and how sweetly you are looking at me now,
my Zina! Do you remember how you used to laugh, in bygone days? Oh, Zina,
my angel, I shall not ask you to forgive me,—I will not remember anything
about—that, you know what! for if you _do_ forgive me, I can never forgive
myself!

“All the long, long nights, Zina, I have lain here and thought, and
thought; and I have long since decided that I had better die, Zina; for I
am not fit to live!”

Zina wept, and silently pressed his hands, as though she would stop him
talking so.

“Why do you cry so?” continued the sick man. “Is it because I am dying?
but all the past is long since dead and buried, Zina, my angel! You are
wiser than I am, you know I am a bad, wicked man; surely you cannot love
me still? Do you know what it has cost me to realise that I am a bad man?
I, who have always prided myself before the world—and what on? Purity of
heart, generosity of aim! Yes, Zina, so I did, while we read Shakespeare;
and in theory I was pure and generous. Yet, how did I prove these
qualities in practice?”

“Oh, don’t! don’t!” sobbed Zina, “you are not fair to yourself: don’t talk
like this, please don’t!”

“Don’t stop me, Zina! You forgave me, my angel; I know you forgave me long
ago, but you must have judged me, and you know what sort of man I really
am; and that is what tortures me so! I am unworthy of your love, Zina! And
you were good and true, not only in theory, but in practice too! You told
your mother you would marry me, and no one else, and you would have kept
your word! Do you know, Zina, I never realized before what you would
sacrifice in marrying me! I could not even see that you might die of
hunger if you did so! All I thought of was that you would be the bride of
a great poet (in the future), and I could not understand your reasons for
wishing to delay our union! So I reproached you and bullied you, and
despised you and suspected you, and at last I committed the crime of
showing your letter! I was not even a scoundrel at that moment! I was
simply a worm-man. Ah! how you must have despised me! No, it is well that
I am dying; it is well that you did not marry me! I should not have
understood your sacrifice, and I should have worried you, and perhaps, in
time, have learned to hate you, and ... but now it is good, it is best so!
my bitter tears can at least cleanse my heart before I die. Ah! Zina!
Zina! love me, love me as you did before for a little, little while! just
for the last hour of my life. I know I am not worthy of it, but—oh, my
angel, my Zina!”

Throughout this speech Zina, sobbing herself, had several times tried to
stop the speaker; but he would not listen. He felt that he must unburden
his soul by speaking out, and continued to talk—though with difficulty,
panting, and with choking and husky utterance.

“Oh, if only you had never seen me and never loved me,” said Zina, “you
would have lived on now! Ah, _why_ did we ever meet?”

“No, no, darling, don’t blame yourself because I am dying! think of all my
self-love, my romanticism! I am to blame for all, myself! Did they ever
tell you my story in full? Do you remember, three years ago, there was a
criminal here sentenced to death? This man heard that a criminal was never
executed whilst ill! so he got hold of some wine, mixed tobacco in it, and
drank it. The effect was to make him so dreadfully sick, with
blood-spitting, that his lungs became affected; he was taken to a
hospital, and a few weeks after he died of virulent consumption! Well, on
that day, you know, after the letter, it struck me that I would do the
same; and why do you think I chose consumption? Because I was afraid of
any more sudden death? Perhaps. But, oh, Zina! believe me, a romantic
nonsense played a great part in it; at all events, I had an idea that it
would be striking and grand for me to be lying here, dying of consumption,
and you standing and wringing your hands for woe that _love_ should have
brought me to this! You should come, I thought, and beg my pardon on your
knees, and I should forgive you and die in your arms!”

“Oh, don’t! don’t!” said Zina, “don’t talk of it now, dear! you are not
really like that. Think of our happy days together, think of something
else—not that, not that!”

“Oh, but it’s so bitter to me, darling; and that’s why I must speak of it.
I havn’t seen you for a year and a half, you know, and all that time I
have been alone; and I don’t think there was one single minute of all that
time when I have not thought of you, my angel, Zina! And, oh! how I longed
to do something to earn a better opinion from you! Up to these very last
days I have never believed that I should really die; it has not killed me
all at once, you know. I have long walked about with my lungs affected.
For instance, I have longed to become a great poet suddenly, to publish a
poem such as has never appeared before on this earth; I intended to pour
my whole soul and being into it, so that wherever I was, or wherever _you_
were, I should always be with you and remind you of myself in my poems!
And my greatest longing of all was that you should think it all over and
say to yourself at last some day, ’No, he is not such a wretch as I
thought, after all!’ It was stupid of me, Zina, stupid—stupid—wasn’t it,
darling?”

“No, no, Vaísia—no!” cried Zina. She fell on his breast and kissed his
poor hot, dry hands.

“And, oh! how jealous I have been of you all this time, Zina! I think I
should have died if I had heard of your wedding. I kept a watch over you,
you know; I had a spy—there!” (he nodded towards his mother). “She used to
go over and bring me news. You never loved Mosgliakoff—now _did_ you,
Zina? Oh, my darling, my darling, will you remember me when I am dead? Oh,
I know you will; but years go by, Zina, and hearts grow cold, and yours
will cool too, and you’ll forget me, Zina!”

“No, no, never! I shall never marry. You are my first love, and my
only—only—undying love!”

“But all things die, Zina, even our memories, and our good and noble
feelings die also, and in their place comes reason. No, no, Zina, be
happy, and live long. Love another if you can, you cannot love a poor dead
man for ever! But think of me now and then, if only seldom; don’t think of
my faults: forgive them! For oh, Zina, there was good in that sweet love
of ours as well as evil. Oh, golden, golden days never to be recalled!
Listen, darling, I have always loved the sunset hour—remember me at that
time, will you? Oh no, no! why must I die? oh _how_ I should love to live
on now. Think of that time—oh, just think of it! it was all spring then,
the sun shone so bright, the flowers were so sweet, ah me! and look,
now—look!”

And the poor thin finger pointed to the frozen window-pane. Then he seized
Zina’s hand and pressed it tight over his eyes, and sighed
bitterly—bitterly! His sobs nearly burst his poor suffering breast.... And
so he continued suffering and talking all the long day. Zina comforted and
soothed him as she best could, but she too was full of deadly grief and
pain. She told him—she promised him—never to forget; that she would never
love again as she loved him; and he believed her and wept, and smiled
again, and kissed her hands. And so the day passed.

Meanwhile, Maria Alexandrovna had sent some ten times for Zina, begging
her not to ruin her reputation irretrievably. At last, at dusk, she
determined to go herself; she was out of her wits with terror and grief.

Having called Zina out into the next room, she proceeded to beg and pray
her, on her knees, “to spare this last dagger at her heart!”

Zina had come out from the sick-room ill: her head was on fire,—she heard,
but could not comprehend, what her mother said; and Marie Alexandrovna was
obliged to leave the house again in despair, for Zina had determined to
sit up all night with Vaísia.

She never left his bedside, but the poor fellow grew worse and worse.
Another day came, but there was no hope that the sick man would see its
close. His old mother walked about as though she had lost all control of
her actions; grief had turned her head for the time; she gave her son
medicines, but he would none of them! His death agony dragged on and on!
He could not speak now, and only hoarse inarticulate sounds proceeded from
his throat. To the very last instant he stared and stared at Zina, and
never took his eyes off her; and when their light failed them he still
groped with uncertain fingers for her hand, to press and fondle it in his
own!

Meanwhile the short winter day was waning! And when at even the last
sunbeam gilded the frozen window-pane of the little room, the soul of the
sufferer fled in pursuit of it out of the emaciated body that had kept it
prisoner.

The old mother, seeing that there was nothing left her now but the
lifeless body of her beloved Vaísia, wrung her hands, and with a loud cry
flung herself on his dead breast.

“This is your doing, you viper, you cursed snake,” she yelled to Zina, in
her despair; “it was you ruined and killed him, you wicked, wretched
girl.” But Zina heard nothing. She stood over the dead body like one
bereft of her senses.

At last she bent over him, made the sign of the Cross, kissed him, and
mechanically left the room. Her eyes were ablaze, her head whirled. Two
nights without sleep, combined with her turbulent feelings, were almost
too much for her reason; she had a sort of confused consciousness that all
her past had just been torn out of her heart, and that a new life was
beginning for her, dark and threatening.

But she had not gone ten paces when Mosgliakoff suddenly seemed to start
up from the earth at her feet.

He must have been waiting for her here.

“Zenaida Afanassievna,” he began, peering all around him in what looked
like timid haste; it was still pretty light. “Zenaida Afanassievna, of
course I am an ass, or, if you please, perhaps not quite an ass, for I
really think I am acting rather generously this time. Excuse my
blundering, but I am rather confused, from a variety of causes.”

Zina glanced at him almost unconsciously, and silently went on her way.
There was not much room for two on the narrow pavement, and as Zina did
not make way for Paul, the latter was obliged to walk on the road at the
side, which he did, never taking his eyes off her face.

“Zenaida Afanassievna,” he continued, “I have thought it all over, and if
you are agreeable I am willing to renew my proposal of marriage. I am even
ready to forget all that has happened; all the ignominy of the last two
days, and to forgive it—but on one condition: that while we are still here
our engagement is to remain a strict secret. You will depart from this
place as soon as ever you can, and I shall quietly follow you. We will be
married secretly, somewhere, so that nobody shall know anything about it;
and then we’ll be off to St. Petersburg by express post—don’t take more
than a small bag—eh? What say you, Zenaida Afanassievna; tell me quick,
please, I can’t stay here. We might be seen together, you know.”

Zina did not answer a word; she only looked at Mosgliakoff; but it was
such a look that he understood all instantly, bowed, and disappeared down
the next lane.

“Dear me,” he said to himself, “what’s the meaning of this? The day before
yesterday she became so jolly humble, and blamed herself all round. I’ve
come on the wrong day, evidently!”

Meanwhile event followed event in Mordasof.

A very tragical circumstance occurred.

The old prince, who moved over to the hotel with Mosgliakoff, fell very
ill that same night, dangerously ill. All Mordasof knew of it in the
morning; the doctor never left his side. That evening a consultation of
all the local medical talent was held over the old man (the invitations to
which were issued in Latin); but in spite of the Latin and all they could
do for him, the poor prince was quite off his head; he raved and asked his
doctor to sing him some ballad or other; raved about wigs, and
occasionally cried out as though frightened.

The Mordasof doctors decided that the hospitality of the town had given
the prince inflammation of the stomach, which had somehow “gone to the
head.”

There might be some subordinate moral causes to account for the attack;
but at all events he ought to have died long ago; and so he would
certainly die now.

In this last conclusion they were not far wrong; for the poor old prince
breathed his last three days after, at the hotel.

This event impressed the Mordasof folk considerably. No one had expected
such a tragical turn of affairs. They went in troops to the hotel to view
the poor old body, and there they wagged their heads wisely and ended by
passing severe judgment upon “the murderers of the unfortunate
Prince,”—meaning thereby, of course, Maria Alexandrovna and her daughter.
They predicted that this matter would go further. Mosgliakoff was in a
dreadful state of perturbation: he did not know what to do with the body.
Should he take it back to Donchanof! or what? Perhaps he would be held
responsible for the old man’s death, as he had brought him here? He did
not like the look of things. The Mordasof people were less than useless
for advice, they were all far too frightened to hazard a word.

But suddenly the scene changed.

One fine evening a visitor arrived—no less a person than the eminent
Prince Shepetiloff, a young man of thirty-five, with colonel’s epaulettes,
a relative of the dead man. His arrival created a great stir among all
classes at Mordasof.

It appeared that this gentleman had lately left St. Petersburg, and had
called in at Donchanof. Finding no one there, he had followed the prince
to Mordasof, where the news and circumstances of the old man’s death fell
upon him like a thunder-clap!

Even the governor felt a little guilty while detailing the story of the
prince’s death: all Mordasof felt and looked guilty.

This visitor took the matter entirely into his own hands, and Mosgliakoff
made himself scarce before the presence of the prince’s real nephew, and
disappeared, no one knew whither.

The body was taken to the monastery, and all the Mordasof ladies flocked
thither to the funeral. It was rumoured that Maria Alexandrovna was to be
present, and that she was to go on her knees before the coffin, and loudly
pray for pardon; and that all this was in conformity with the laws of the
country.

Of course this was all nonsense, and Maria Alexandrovna never went near
the place!

I forgot to state that the latter had carried off Zina to the country
house, not deeming it possible to continue to live in the town. There she
sat, and trembled over all the second-hand news she could get hold of as
to events occurring at Mordasof.

The funeral procession passed within half a mile of her country house; so
that Maria Alexandrovna could get a good view of the long train of
carriages looking black against the white snow roads; but she could not
bear the sight, and left the window.

Before the week was out, she and her daughter moved to Moscow, taking
Afanassy Matveyevitch with them; and, within a month, the country house
and town house were both for sale.

And so Mordasof lost its most eminent inhabitant for ever!

Afanassy Matveyevitch was said to be for sale with the country house.

A year—two years went by, and Mordasof had quite forgotten Maria
Alexandrovna, or nearly so! Alas! so wags the world! It was said that she
had bought another estate, and had moved over to some other provincial
capital; where, of course, she had everybody under her thumb; that Zina
was not yet married; and that Afanassy Matveyevitch—but why repeat all
this nonsense? None of it was true; it was but rumour!——

                  ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

It is three years since I wrote the last words of the above chronicles of
Mordasof, and whoever would have believed that I should have to unfold my
MS., and add another piece of news to my narrative?

Well, to business!—

Let’s begin with Paul Mosgliakoff.—After leaving Mordasof, he went
straight to St. Petersburg, where he very soon obtained the clerkship he
had applied for. He then promptly forgot all about Mordasof, and the
events enacted there. He enjoyed life, went into society, fell in love,
made another offer of marriage, and had to swallow another snub; became
disgusted with Petersburg life, and joined an expedition to one of the
remote quarters of our vast empire.

This expedition passed through its perils of land and water, and arrived
in due course at the capital of the remote province which was its
destination.

There the members were well received by the governor, and a ball was
arranged for their entertainment.

Mosgliakoff was delighted. He donned his best Petersburg uniform, and
proceeded to the large ball-room with the full intention of producing a
great and startling effect. His first duty was to make his bow to the
governor-general’s lady, of whom it was rumoured that she was young, and
very lovely.

He advanced then, with some little “swagger,” but was suddenly rooted to
the spot with amazement. Before him stood Zina, beautifully dressed, proud
and haughty, and sparkling with diamonds! She did not recognize him; her
eyes rested a moment on his face, and then passed on to glance at some
other person.

Paul immediately departed to a safe and quiet corner, and there
button-holed a young civilian whom he questioned, and from whom he learned
certain most interesting facts. He learned that the governor-general had
married a very rich and very lovely lady in Moscow, two years since; that
his wife was certainly very beautiful, but, at the same time, excessively
proud and haughty, and danced with none but generals. That the governor’s
lady had a mother, a lady of rank and fashion, who had followed them from
Moscow; that this lady was very clever and wise, but that even she was
quite under the thumb of her daughter; as for the general (the governor),
he doted on his wife.

Mosgliakoff inquired after our old friend Afanassy; but in their “remote
province” nothing was known of that gentleman.

Feeling a little more at home presently, Paul began to walk about the
room, and shortly espied Maria Alexandrovna herself. She was wonderfully
dressed, and was surrounded by a bevy of ladies who evidently dwelt in the
glory of her patronage: she appeared to be exceedingly amiable to
them—wonderfully so!

Paul plucked up courage and introduced himself. Maria Alexandrovna seemed
to give a shudder at first sight of him, but in an instant she was herself
again. She was kind enough to recognise Paul, and to ask him all sorts of
questions as to his Petersburg experiences, and so on. She never said a
word about Mordasof, however. She behaved as though no such place existed.

After a minute or so, and having dropped a question as to some Petersburg
prince whom Paul had never so much as heard of, she turned to speak to
another young gentleman standing by, and in a second or two was entirely
oblivious of Mosgliakoff. With a sarcastic smile our friend passed on into
the large hall. Feeling offended—though he knew not why—he decided not to
dance. So he leant his back against one of the pillars, and for a couple
of hours did nothing but follow Zina about with his eyes. But alas! all
the grace of his figure and attitude, and all the fascinations of his
general appearance were lost upon her, she never looked at him.

At last, with legs stiff from standing, tired, hungry, and feeling
miserable generally, he went home. Here he tossed about half the night
thinking of the past, and next morning, having the chance of joining a
branch party of his expedition, he accepted the opportunity with delight,
and left the town at once.

The bells tinkled, the horses trotted gaily along, kicking up snowballs as
they went. Paul Mosgliakoff fell to thinking, then he fell to snoring, and
so he continued until the third station from the start; there he awoke
fresh and jolly, and with the new scenery came newer, and healthier, and
pleasanter thoughts.

                       THE END OF “UNCLE’S DREAM.”

THE PERMANENT HUSBAND.

CHAPTER I.

Summer had come, and Velchaninoff, contrary to his expectations, was still
in St. Petersburg. His trip to the south of Russia had fallen through, and
there seemed no end to the business which had detained him.

This business—which was a lawsuit as to certain property—had taken a very
disagreeable aspect. Three months ago the thing had appeared to be by no
means complicated—in fact, there had seemed to be scarcely any question as
to the rights and wrongs of the matter, but all seemed to change suddenly.

“Everything else seems to have changed for the worse, too!” said
Velchaninoff to himself, over and over again.

He was employing a clever lawyer—an eminent man, and an expensive one,
too; but in his impatience and suspicion he began to interfere in the
matter himself. He read and wrote papers—all of which the lawyer put into
his waste-paper basket—_holus bolus_; called in continually at the courts
and offices, made inquiries, and confused and worried everybody concerned
in the matter; so at least the lawyer declared, and begged him for mercy’s
sake to go away to the country somewhere.

But he could not make up his mind to do so. He stayed in town and enjoyed
the dust, and the hot nights, and the closeness of the air of St.
Petersburg, things which are enough to destroy anyone’s nerves. His
lodgings were somewhere near the Great Theatre; he had lately taken them,
and did not like them. Nothing went well with him; his hypochondria
increased with each day, and he had long been a victim to that disorder.

Velchaninoff was a man who had seen a great deal of the world; he was not
quite young, thirty-eight years old—perhaps thirty-nine, or so; and all
this “old age,” as he called it, had “fallen upon him quite unawares.”
However, as he himself well understood, he had aged more in the _quality_
than in the number of the years of his life; and if his infirmities were
really creeping upon him, they must have come from within and not from
outside causes. He looked young enough still. He was a tall, stout man,
with light-brown thick hair, without a suspicion of white about it, and a
light beard that reached half way down his chest. At first sight you might
have supposed him to be of a lax, careless disposition or character, but
on studying him more closely you would have found that, on the contrary,
the man was decidedly a stickler for the proprieties of this world, and
withal brought up in the ways and graces of the very best society. His
manners were very good—free but graceful—in spite of this lately-acquired
habit of grumbling and reviling things in general. He was still full of
the most perfect, aristocratic self-confidence: probably he did not
himself suspect to how great an extent this was so, though he was a most
decidedly intelligent, I may say clever, even talented man. His open,
healthy-looking face was distinguished by an almost feminine refinement,
which quality gained him much attention from the fair sex. He had large
blue eyes—eyes which ten years ago had known well how to persuade and
attract; such clear, merry, careless eyes they had been, that they
invariably brought over to his side any person he wished to gain. Now,
when he was nearly forty years old, their ancient, kind, frank expression
had died out of them, and a certain cynicism—a cunning—an irony very
often, and yet another variety of expression, of late—an expression of
melancholy or pain, undefined but keen, had taken the place of the earlier
attractive qualities of his eyes. This expression of melancholy especially
showed itself when he was alone; and it was a strange fact that the gay,
careless, happy fellow of a couple of years ago, the man who could tell a
funny story so inimitably, should now love nothing so well as to be all
alone. He intended to throw up most of his friends—a quite unnecessary
step, in spite of his present financial difficulties. Probably his vanity
was to blame for this intention: he could not bear to see his old friends
in his present position; with his vain suspicious character it would be
most unpalatable to him.

But his vanity began to change its nature in solitude. It did not grow
less, on the contrary; but it seemed to develop into a special type of
vanity which was unlike its old self. This new vanity suffered from
entirely different causes, “_higher_ causes, if I may so express it,” he
said, “and if there really be higher and lower motives in this world.”

He defined these “higher things” as matters which he could not laugh at,
or turn to ridicule when happening in his own individual experience. Of
course it would be quite another thing with the same subjects in society;
by _himself_ he could not ridicule then; but put him among other people,
and he would be the first to tear himself from all of those secret
resolutions of his conscience made in solitude, and laugh them to scorn.

Very often, on rising from his bed in the morning, he would feel ashamed
of the thoughts and feelings which had animated him during the long
sleepless night—and his nights of late had been sleepless. He seemed
suspicious of everything and everybody, great and small, and grew
mistrustful of himself.

One fact stood out clearly, and that was that during those sleepless
nights his thoughts and opinions took huge leaps and bounds, sometimes
changing entirely from the thoughts and opinions of the daytime. This fact
struck him very forcibly; and he took occasion to consult an eminent
medical friend. He spoke in fun, but the doctor informed him that the fact
of feelings and opinions changing during meditations at night, and during
sleeplessness, was one long recognised by science; and that that was
especially the case with persons of strong thinking power, and of acute
feelings. He stated further that very often the beliefs of a whole life
are uprooted under the melancholy influence of night and inability to
sleep, and that often the most fateful resolutions are made under the same
influence; that sometimes this impressionability to the mystic influence
of the dark hours amounted to a malady, in which case measures must be
taken, the radical manner of living should be changed, diet considered, a
journey undertaken if possible, etc., etc.

Velchaninoff listened no further, but he was sure that in his own case
there was decided malady.

Very soon his morning meditations began to partake of the nature of those
of the night, but they were more bitter. Certain events of his life now
began to recur to his memory more and more vividly; they would strike him
suddenly, and without apparent reason: things which had been forgotten for
ten or fifteen years—some so long ago that he thought it miraculous that
he should have been able to recall them at all. But that was not all—for,
after all, what man who has seen any life has not hundreds of such
recollections of the past? The principal point was that all this past came
back to him now with an absolutely new light thrown upon it, and he seemed
to look at it from an entirely new and unexpected point of view. Why did
some of his acts appear to him now to be nothing better than crimes? It
was not merely in the judgment of his intellect that these things appeared
so to him now—had it been only his poor sick mind, he would not have
trusted it; but his whole being seemed to condemn him; he would curse and
even weep over these recollections of the past! If anyone had told him a
couple of years since that he would _weep_ over anything, he would have
laughed the idea to scorn.

At first he recalled the unpleasant experiences of his life: certain
failures in society, humiliations; he remembered how some designing person
had so successfully blackened his character that he was requested to cease
his visits to a certain house; how once, and not so very long ago, he had
been publicly insulted, and had not challenged the offender; how once an
epigram had been fastened to his name by some witty person, in the midst
of a party of pretty women and he had not found a reply; he remembered
several unpaid debts, and how he had most stupidly run through two very
respectable fortunes.

Then he began to recall facts belonging to a “higher” order. He remembered
that he had once insulted a poor old grey-headed clerk, and that the
latter had covered his face with his hands and cried, which Velchaninoff
had thought a great joke at the time, but now looked upon in quite another
light. Then he thought how he had once, merely for fun, set a scandal
going about the beautiful little wife of a certain schoolmaster, and how
the husband had got to hear the rumour. He (Velchaninoff) had left the
town shortly after and did not know how the matter had ended; but now he
fell to wondering and picturing to himself the possible consequences of
his action; and goodness knows where this theme would not have taken him
to if he had not suddenly recalled another picture: that of a poor girl,
whom he had been ashamed of and never thought of loving, but whom he had
betrayed and forsaken, her and her child, when he left St. Petersburg. He
had afterwards searched for this girl and her baby for a whole year, but
never found them.

Of this sort of recollections there were, alas! but too many; and each one
seemed to bring along with it a train of others. His vanity began to
suffer, little by little, under these memories. I have said that his
vanity had developed into a new type of vanity. There were moments (few
albeit) in which he was not even ashamed of having no carriage of his own,
now; or of being seen by one of his former friends in shabby clothes; or
when, if seen and looked at by such a person contemptuously, he was
high-minded enough to suppress even a frown. Of course such moments of
self-oblivion were rare; but, as I said before, his vanity began little by
little to change away from its former quarters and to centre upon one
question which was perpetually ranging itself before his intellect. “There
is some power or other,” he would muse, sarcastically, “somewhere, which
is extremely interested in my morals, and sends me these damnable
recollections and tears of remorse! Let them come, by all means; but they
have not the slightest effect on me! for I haven’t a scrap of independence
about me, in spite of my wretched forty years, I know that for certain.
Why, if it were to happen so that I should gain anything by spreading
another scandal about that schoolmaster’s wife, (for instance, that she
had accepted presents from me, or something of that sort), I should
certainly spread it without a thought.”

But though no other opportunity ever did occur of maligning the
schoolmistress, yet the very thought alone that _if_ such an opportunity
were to occur he would inevitably seize it was almost fatal to him at
times. He was not tortured with memory at every moment of his life; he had
intervals of time to breathe and rest in. But the longer he stayed, the
more unpleasant did he find his life in St. Petersburg. July came in. At
certain moments he felt inclined to throw up his lawsuit and all, and go
down to the Crimea; but after an hour or so he would despise his own idea,
and laugh at himself for entertaining it.

“These thoughts won’t be driven away by a mere journey down south,” he
said to himself, “when they have once begun to annoy me; besides, if I am
easy in my conscience now, I surely need not try to run away from any such
worrying recollections of past days!” “Why should I go after all?” he
resumed, in a strain of melancholy philosophizing; “this place is a very
heaven for a hypochondriac like myself, what with the dust and the heat,
and the discomfort of this house, what with the nonsensical swagger and
pretence of all these wretched little ‘civil servants’ in the departments
I frequent! Everyone is delightfully candid—and candour is undoubtedly
worthy of all respect! I _won’t_ go away—I’ll stay and die here rather
than go!”

CHAPTER II.

It was the third of July. The heat and closeness of the air had become
quite unbearable. The day had been a busy one for Velchaninoff—he had been
walking and driving about without rest, and had still in prospect a visit
in the evening to a certain state councillor who lived somewhere on the
Chornaya Riéchka (black stream), and whom he was anxious to drop in upon
unexpectedly.

At six o’clock our hero issued from his house once more, and trudged off
to dine at a restaurant on the Nefsky, near the police-bridge—a
second-rate sort of place, but French. Here he took his usual corner, and
ordered his usual dinner, and waited.

He always had a rouble(1) dinner, and paid for his wine extra, which
moderation he looked upon as a discreet sacrifice to the temporary
financial embarrassment under which he was suffering.

He regularly went through the ceremony of wondering how he could bring
himself to eat “such nastiness,” and yet as regularly he demolished every
morsel, and with excellent show of appetite too, just as though he had
eaten nothing for three days.

“This appetite can’t be healthy!” he murmured to himself sometimes,
observing his own voracity. However, on this particular occasion, he sat
down to his dinner in a miserably bad humour: he threw his hat angrily
away somewhere, tipped his chair back,—and reflected.

He was in the sort of humour that if his next neighbour—dining at the
little table near him—were to rattle his plate, or if the boy serving him
were to make any little blunder, or, in fact, if any little petty
annoyance were to put him out of a sudden, he was quite capable of
shouting at the offender, and, in fact, of kicking up a serious row on the
smallest pretext.

Soup was served to him. He took up his spoon, and was about to commence
operations, when he suddenly threw it down again, and started from his
seat. An unexpected thought had struck him, and in an instant he had
realized why he had been plunged in gloom and mental perturbation during
the last few days. Goodness knows why he thus suddenly became inspired, as
it were, with the truth; but so it was. He jumped from his chair, and in
an instant it all stood out before him as plain as his five fingers! “It’s
all that hat!” he muttered to himself; “it’s all simply and solely that
damnable round hat, with the crape band round it; that’s the reason and
cause of all my worries these last days!”

He began to think; and the more he thought, the more dejected he became,
and the more astonishing appeared the “remarkable circumstance of the
hat.”

“But, hang it all, there _is_ no circumstance!” he growled to himself.
“What circumstance do I mean? There’s been nothing in the nature of an
event or occurrence!”

The fact of the matter was this: Nearly a fortnight since, he had met for
the first time, somewhere about the corner of the Podiacheskaya, a
gentleman with crape round his hat. There was nothing particular about the
man—he was just like all others; but as he passed Velchaninoff he had
stared at him so fixedly that it was impossible to avoid noticing him, and
more than noticing—observing him attentively.

The man’s face seemed to be familiar to Velchaninoff. He had evidently
seen him somewhere and at some time or other.

“But one sees thousands of people during one’s life,” thought
Velchaninoff; “one can’t remember every face!” So he had gone on his way,
and before he was twenty yards further, to all appearances he had
forgotten all about the meeting, in spite of the strength of the first
impression made upon him.

And yet he had _not_ forgotten; for the impression remained all day, and a
very original impression it was, too,—a kind of objectless feeling of
anger against he knew not what. He remembered his exact feelings at this
moment, a fortnight after the occurrence: how he had been puzzled by the
angry nature of his sentiments at the time, and puzzled to such an extent
that he had never for a moment connected his ill-humour with the meeting
of the morning, though he had felt as cross as possible all day. But the
gentleman with the crape band had not lost much time about reminding
Velchaninoff of his existence, for the very next day he met the latter
again, on the Nefsky Prospect and again he had stared in a peculiarly
fixed way at him.

Velchaninoff flared up and spat on the ground in irritation—Russian like,
but a moment after he was wondering at his own wrath. “There are faces,
undoubtedly,” he reflected, “which fill one with disgust at first sight;
but I certainly _have_ met that fellow somewhere or other.

“Yes, I _have_ met him before!” he muttered again, half an hour later.

And again, as on the last occasion, he was in a vile humour all that
evening, and even went so far as to have a bad dream in the night; and yet
it never entered his head to imagine that the cause of his bad temper on
both occasions had been the accidental meeting with the gentleman in
mourning, although on the second evening he had remembered and thought of
the chance encounter two or three times.

He had even flared up angrily to think that “such a dirty-looking cad”
should presume to linger in his memory so long; he would have felt it
humiliating to himself to imagine for a moment that such a wretched
creature could possibly be in any way connected with the agitated
condition of his feelings.

Two days later the pair had met once more at the landing place of one of
the small Neva ferry steamers.

On the third occasion Velchaninoff was ready to swear that the man
recognised him, and had pressed through the crowd towards him; had even
dared to stretch out his hand and call him by name. As to this last fact
he was not quite certain, however. “At all events, who the deuce _is_ he?”
thought Velchaninoff, “and why can’t the idiot come up and speak to me if
he really does recognise me; and if he so much wishes to do so?” With
these thoughts Velchaninoff had taken a droshky and started off for the
Smolney Monastery, where his lawyer lived.

Half an hour later he was engaged in his usual quarrel with that
gentleman.

But that same evening he was in a worse humour than ever, and his night
was spent in fantastic dreams and imaginings, which were anything but
pleasant. “I suppose it’s bile!” he concluded, as he paid his matutinal
visit to the looking-glass.

This was the third meeting.

Then, for five days there was not a sign of the man; and yet, much to his
distaste, Velchaninoff could not, for the life of him, avoid thinking of
the man with the crape band.

He caught himself musing over the fellow. “What have I to do with him?” he
thought. “What can his business in St. Petersburg be?—he looks busy: and
whom is he in mourning for? He clearly recognises me, but I don’t know in
the least who he is! And why do such people as he is put crape on their
hats? it doesn’t seem ’the thing’ for them, somehow! I believe I shall
recognise this fellow if I ever get a good close look at him!”

And there came over him that sensation we all know so well—the same
feeling that one has when one can’t for the life of one think of the
required word; every other word comes up; associations with the right word
come up; occasions when one has used the word come up; one wanders round
and round the immediate vicinity of the word wanted, but the actual word
itself will not appear, though you may break your head to get at it!

“Let’s see, now: it was—yes—some while since. It was—where on earth was
it? There was a—oh! devil take whatever there was or wasn’t there! What
does it matter to me?” he broke off angrily of a sudden. “I’m not going to
lower myself by thinking of a little cad like that!”

He felt very angry; but when, in the evening, he remembered that he had
been so upset, and recollected the cause of his anger, he felt the
disagreeable sensation of having been caught by someone doing something
wrong.

This fact puzzled and annoyed him.

“There must be some reason for my getting so angry at the mere
recollection of that man’s face,” he thought, but he didn’t finish
thinking it out.

But the next evening he was still more indignant; and this time, he really
thought, with good cause. “Such audacity is unparalleled!” he said to
himself.

The fact of the matter is, there had been a fourth meeting with the man of
the crape hat band. The latter had apparently arisen from the earth and
confronted him. But let me explain what had happened.

It so chanced that Velchaninoff had just met, accidentally, that very
state-councillor mentioned a few pages back, whom he had been so anxious
to see, and on whom he had intended to pounce unexpectedly at his country
house. This gentleman evidently avoided Velchaninoff, but at the same time
was most necessary to the latter in his lawsuit. Consequently, when
Velchaninoff met him, the one was delighted, while the other was very much
the reverse. Velchaninoff had immediately button-holed him, and walked
down the street with him, talking; doing his very utmost to keep the sly
old fox to the subject on which it was so necessary that he should be
pumped. And it was just at this most important moment, when Velchaninoff’s
intellect was all on the _qui vive_ to catch up the slightest hints of
what he wished to get at, while the foxy old councillor (aware of the
fact) was doing his best to reveal nothing, that the former, taking his
eyes from his companion’s face for one instant, beheld the gentleman of
the crape hatband walking along the other side of the road, and looking at
him—nay, _watching_ him, evidently—and apparently smiling!

“Devil take him!” said Velchaninoff, bursting out into fury at once, while
the “old fox” instantly disappeared, “and I should have succeeded in
another minute. Curse that dirty little hound! he’s simply spying me.
I’ll—I’ll hire somebody to—I’ll take my oath he laughed at me! D—n him,
I’ll thrash him. I wish I had a stick with me. I’ll—I’ll buy one! I won’t
leave this matter so. Who the deuce is he? I _will_ know! Who is he?”

At last, three days after this fourth encounter, we find Velchaninoff
sitting down to dinner at his restaurant, as recorded a page or two back,
in a state of mind bordering upon the furious. He could not conceal the
state of his feelings from himself, in spite of all his pride. He was
obliged to confess at last, that all his anxiety, his irritation, his
state of agitation generally, must undoubtedly be connected with, and
absolutely attributed to, the appearance of the wretched-looking creature
with the crape hatband, in spite of his insignificance.

“I may be a hypochondriac,” he reflected, “and I may be inclined to make
an elephant out of a gnat; but how does it help me? What use is it to me
if I persuade myself to believe that _perhaps_ all this is fancy? Why, if
every dirty little wretch like that is to have the power of upsetting a
man like myself, why—it’s—it’s simply unbearable!”

Undoubtedly, at this last (fifth) encounter of to-day, the elephant had
proved himself a very small gnat indeed. The “crape man” had appeared
suddenly, as usual, and had passed by Velchaninoff, but without looking up
at him this time; indeed, he had gone by with downcast eyes, and had even
seemed anxious to pass unobserved. Velchaninoff had turned rapidly round
and shouted as loud as ever he could at him.

“Hey!” he cried. “You! Crape hatband! You want to escape notice this time,
do you? Who are you?”

Both the question and the whole idea of calling after the man were
absurdly foolish, and Velchaninoff knew it the moment he had said the
words. The man had turned round, stopped for an instant, lost his head,
smiled—half made up his mind to say something,—had waited half a minute in
painful indecision, then twisted suddenly round again, and “bolted”
without a word. Velchaninoff gazed after him in amazement. “What if it be
_I_ that haunt _him_, and not he me, after all?” he thought. However,
Velchaninoff ate up his dinner, and then drove off to pounce upon the town
councillor at the latter’s house, if he could.

The councillor was not in; and he was informed that he would scarcely be
at home before three or four in the morning, because he had gone to a
“name’s-day party.”

Velchaninoff felt that this was too bad! In his rage he determined to
follow and hunt the fellow up at the party: he actually took a droshky,
and started off with that wild idea; but luckily he thought better of it
on the way, got out of the vehicle and walked away towards the “Great
Theatre,” near which he lived. He felt that he must have motion; also he
_must_ absolutely sleep well this coming night: in order to sleep he must
be tired; so he walked all the way home—a fairly long walk, and arrived
there about half-past ten, as tired as he could wish.

His lodging, which he had taken last March, and had abused ever since,
apologising to himself for living “in such a hole,” and at the same time
excusing himself for the fact by the reflection that it was only for a
while, and that he had dropped quite accidentally into St.
Petersburg—thanks to that cursed lawsuit!—his lodging, I say, was by no
means so bad as he made it out to be!

The entrance certainly was a little dark, and dirty-looking, being just
under the arch of the gateway. But he had two fine large light rooms on
the second floor, separated by the entrance hall: one of these rooms
overlooked the yard and the other the street. Leading out of the former of
these was a smaller room, meant to be used as a bedroom; but Velchaninoff
had filled it with a disordered array of books and papers, and preferred
to sleep in one of the large rooms, the one overlooking the street, to
wit.

His bed was made for him, every day, upon the large divan. The rooms were
full of good furniture, and some valuable ornaments and pictures were
scattered about, but the whole place was in dreadful disorder; the fact
being that at this time Velchaninoff was without a regular servant. His
one domestic had gone away to stay with her friends in the country; he
thought of taking a man, but decided that it was not worth while for a
short time; besides he hated flunkeys, and ended by making arrangements
with his dvornik’s sister Martha, who was to come up every morning and “do
out” his rooms, he leaving the key with her as he went out each day.
Martha did absolutely nothing towards tidying the place and robbed him
besides, but he didn’t care, he liked to be alone in the house. But
solitude is all very well within certain limits, and Velchaninoff found
that his nerves could not stand all this sort of thing at certain bilious
moments; and it so fell out that he began to loathe his room more and more
every time he entered it.

However, on this particular evening he hardly gave himself time to
undress; he threw himself on his bed, and determined that nothing should
make him think of _anything_, and that he would fall asleep at once.

And, strangely enough, his head had hardly touched the pillow before he
actually was asleep; and this was the first time for a month past that
such a thing had occurred.

He awoke at about two, considerably agitated; he had dreamed certain very
strange dreams, reminding him of the incoherent wanderings of fever.

The subject seemed to be some crime which he had committed and concealed,
but of which he was accused by a continuous flow of people who swarmed
into his rooms for the purpose. The crowd which had already collected
within was enormous, and yet they continued to pour in in such numbers
that the door was never shut for an instant.

But his whole interest seemed to centre in one strange looking
individual,—a man who seemed to have once been very closely and intimately
connected with him, but who had died long ago and now reappeared for some
reason or other.

The most tormenting part of the matter was that Velchaninoff could not
recollect who this man was,—he could not remember his name,—though he
recollected the fact that he had once dearly loved him. All the rest of
the people swarming into the room seemed to be waiting for the final word
of this man,—either the condemnation or the justification of Velchaninoff
was to be pronounced by him,—and everyone was impatiently waiting to hear
him speak.

But he sat motionless at the table, and would not open his lips to say a
word of any sort.

The uproar continued, the general annoyance increased, and, suddenly,
Velchaninoff himself strode up to the man in a fury, and smote him because
he would not speak. Velchaninoff felt the strangest satisfaction in having
thus smitten him; his heart seemed to freeze in horror for what he had
done, and in acute suffering for the crime involved in his action,—but in
that very sensation of freezing at the heart lay the sense of satisfaction
which he felt.

Exasperated more and more, he struck the man a second and a third time;
and then—in a sort of intoxication of fury and terror, which amounted to
actual insanity, and yet bore within it a germ of delightful satisfaction,
he ceased to count his blows, and rained them in without ceasing.

He felt he must destroy, annihilate, demolish all this.

Suddenly something strange happened; everyone present had given a dreadful
cry and turned expectantly towards the door, while at the same moment
there came three terrific peals of the hall-bell, so violent that it
appeared someone was anxious to pull the bell-handle out.

Velchaninoff awoke, started up in a second, and made for the door; he was
persuaded that the ring at the bell had been no dream or illusion, but
that someone had actually rung, and was at that moment standing at the
front door.

“It would be _too_ unnatural if such a clear and unmistakable ring should
turn out to be nothing but an item of a dream!” he thought. But, to his
surprise, it proved that such was nevertheless the actual state of the
case! He opened the door and went out on to the landing; he looked
downstairs and about him, but there was not a soul to be seen. The bell
hung motionless. Surprised, but pleased, he returned into his room. He lit
a candle, and suddenly remembered that he had left the door closed, but
not locked and chained. He had often returned home before this evening and
forgotten to lock the door behind him, without attaching any special
significance to the fact; his maid had often respectfully protested
against such neglect while with him. He now returned to the entrance hall
to make the door fast; before doing so he opened it, however, and had one
more look about the stairs. He then shut the door and fastened the chain
and hook, but did not take the trouble to turn the key in the lock.

Some clock struck half-past two at this moment, so that he had had three
hours’ sleep—more or less.

His dream had agitated him to such an extent that he felt unwilling to lie
down again at once; he decided to walk up and down the room two or three
times first, just long enough to smoke a cigar. Having half-dressed
himself, he went to the window, drew the heavy curtains aside and pulled
up one of the blinds, it was almost full daylight. These light summer
nights of St. Petersburg always had a bad effect upon his nerves, and of
late they had added to the causes of his sleeplessness, so that a few
weeks since he had invested in these thick curtains, which completely shut
out the light when drawn close.

Having thus let in the sunshine, quite oblivious of the lighted candle on
the table, he commenced to walk up and down the room. Still feeling the
burden of his dream upon him, its impression was even now at work upon his
mind, he still felt a painfully guilty sensation about him, caused by the
fact that he had allowed himself to raise his hand against “that man” and
strike him. “But, my dear sir!” he argued with himself, “it was not a man
at all! the whole thing was a dream! what’s the use of worrying yourself
for nothing?”

Velchaninoff now became obstinately convinced that he was a sick man, and
that to his sickly state of body was to be attributed all his perturbation
of mind. He was an invalid.

It had always been a weak point with Velchaninoff that he hated to think
of himself as growing old or infirm; and yet in his moments of anger he
loved to exaggerate one or the other in order to worry himself.

“It’s old age,” he now muttered to himself, as he paced up and down the
room. “I’m becoming an old fogey—that’s the fact of the matter! I’m losing
my memory—see ghosts, and have dreams, and hear bells ring—curse it all! I
know these dreams of old, they always herald fever with me. I dare swear
that the whole business of this man with the crape hatband has been a
dream too! I was perfectly right yesterday, he isn’t haunting me the least
bit in the world; it is I that am haunting _him_! I’ve invented a pretty
little ghost-story about him and then climb under the table in terror at
my own creation! Why do I call him a little cad, too? he may be a most
respectable individual for all I know! His face is a disagreeable one,
certainly, though there is nothing hideous about it! He dresses just like
anyone else. I don’t know—there’s something about his look—There I go
again! What the devil have I got to do with his look? what a fool I
am—just as though I could not live without the dirty little wretch—curse
him!”

Among other thoughts connected with this haunting crape-man was one which
puzzled Velchaninoff immensely; he felt convinced that at some time or
other he had known the man, and known him very intimately; and that now
the latter, when meeting him, always laughed at him because he was aware
of some great secret of his former life, or because he was amused to see
Velchaninoff’s present humiliating condition of poverty.

Mechanically our hero approached the window in order to get a breath of
fresh air—when he was suddenly seized with a violent fit of shuddering;—a
feeling came over him that something unusual and unheard-of was happening
before his very eyes.

He had not had time to open the window when something he saw caused him to
slip behind the corner of the curtain, and hide himself.

The man in the crape hatband was standing on the opposite side of the
street.

He was standing with his face turned directly towards Velchaninoff’s
window, but evidently unaware of the latter’s presence there, and was
carefully examining the house, and apparently considering some question
connected with it.

He seemed to come to a decision after a moment’s thought, and raised his
finger to his forehead; then he looked quietly about him, and ran swiftly
across the road on tiptoe. He reached the gate, and entered it; this gate
was often left open on summer nights until two or three in the morning.

“He’s coming to me,” muttered Velchaninoff, and with equal caution he left
the window, and ran to the front door; arrived in the hall, he stood in
breathless expectation before the door, and placed his trembling hand
carefully upon the hook which he had fastened a few minutes since, and
stood listening for the tread of the expected footfall on the stairs. His
heart was beating so loud that he was afraid he might miss the sound of
the cautious steps approaching.

He could understand nothing of what was happening, but it seemed clear
that his dream was about to be realised.

Velchaninoff was naturally brave. He loved risk for its own sake, and very
often ran into useless dangers, with no one by to see, to please himself.
But this was different, somehow; he was not himself, and yet he was as
brave as ever, but with something added. He made out every movement of the
stranger from behind his own door.

“Ah!—there he comes!—he’s on the steps now!—here he comes!—he’s up
now!—now he’s looking down stairs and all about, and crouching down! Aha!
there’s his hand on the door-handle—he’s trying it!—he thought he would
find it unlocked!—then he must know that I _do_ leave it unlocked
sometimes!—He’s trying it again!—I suppose he thinks the hook may slip!—he
doesn’t care to go away without doing anything!”

So ran Velchaninoff’s thoughts, and so indeed followed the man’s actions.
There was no doubt about it, someone was certainly standing outside and
trying the door-handle, carefully and cautiously pulling at the door
itself, and, in fact, endeavouring to effect an entrance; equally sure was
it that the person so doing must have his own object in trying to sneak
into another man’s house at dead of night. But Velchaninoff’s plan of
action was laid, and he awaited the proper moment; he was anxious to seize
a good opportunity—slip the hook and chain—open the door wide, suddenly,
and stand face to face with this bugbear, and then ask him what the deuce
he wanted there.

No sooner devised than executed.

Awaiting the proper moment, Velchaninoff suddenly slipped the hook, pushed
the door wide, and almost tumbled over the man with the crape hatband!

CHAPTER III.

The crape-man stood rooted to the spot dumb with astonishment.

Both men stood opposite one another on the landing, and both stared in
each other’s eyes, silent and motionless.

So passed a few moments, and suddenly, like a flash of lightning,
Velchaninoff became aware of the identity of his guest.

At the same moment the latter seemed to guess that Velchaninoff had
recognised him. Velchaninoff could see it in his eyes. In one instant the
visitor’s whole face was all ablaze with its very sweetest of smiles.

“Surely I have the pleasure of speaking to Aleksey Ivanovitch?” he asked,
in the most dulcet of voices, comically inappropriate to the circumstances
of the case.

“Surely you are Pavel Pavlovitch Trusotsky?” asked Velchaninoff, in
return, after a pause, and with an expression of much perplexity.

“I had the pleasure of your acquaintance ten years ago at T——, and, if I
may remind you of the fact, we were almost intimate friends.”

“Quite so—oh yes! but it is now three o’clock in the morning, and you have
been trying my lock for the last ten minutes.”

“Three o’clock!” cried the visitor, looking at his watch with an air of
melancholy surprise.

“Why, so it is! dear me—three o’clock! forgive me, Aleksey Ivanovitch! I
ought to have found it out before thinking of paying you a visit. I will
do myself the honour of calling to explain another day, and now I—.”

“Oh no;—no, no! If you are to explain at all let’s have it at once; this
moment!” interrupted Velchaninoff warmly. “Kindly step in here, into the
room! You must have meant to come in, you know; you didn’t come here at
night, like this, simply for the pleasure of trying my lock?”

He felt excited, and at the same time was conscious of a sort of timidity;
he could not collect his thoughts. He was ashamed of himself for it. There
was no danger, no mystery about the business, nothing but the silly figure
of Pavel Pavlovitch.

And yet he could not feel satisfied that there was nothing particular in
it; he felt afraid of something to come, he knew not what or when.

However, he made the man enter, seated him in a chair, and himself sat
down on the side of his bed, a yard or so off, and rested his elbows on
his knees while he quietly waited for the other to begin. He felt
irritated; he stared at his visitor and let his thoughts run. Strangely
enough, the other never opened his mouth; he seemed to be entirely
oblivious of the fact that it was his duty to speak. Nay, he was even
looking enquiringly at Velchaninoff as though quite expecting that the
latter would speak to _him_!

Perhaps he felt a little uncomfortable at first, somewhat as a mouse must
feel when he finds himself unexpectedly in the trap.

Velchaninoff very soon lost his patience.

“Well?” he cried, “you are not a fantasy or a dream or anything of that
kind, are you? You aren’t a corpse, are you? Come, my friend, this is not
a game or play. I want your explanation, please!”

The visitor fidgeted about a little, smiled, and began to speak
cautiously.

“So far as I can see,” he said, “the time of night of my visit is what
surprises you, and that I should have come as I did; in fact, when I
remember the past, and our intimacy, and all that, I am astonished myself;
but the fact is, I did not mean to come in at all, and if I did so it was
purely an accident.”

“An accident! Why, I saw you creeping across the road on tip-toes!”

“You saw me? Indeed! Come, then you know as much or more about the matter
than I do; but I see I am annoying you. This is how it was: I’ve been in
town three weeks or so on business. I am Pavel Pavlovitch Trusotsky, you
recognized me yourself, my business in town is to effect an exchange of
departments. I am trying for a situation in another place—one with a large
increase of salary; but all this is beside the point; the fact of the
matter is, I believe I have been delaying my business on purpose. I
believe if everything were settled at this moment I should still be
dawdling in this St. Petersburg of yours in my present condition of mind.
I go wandering about as though I had lost all interest in things, and were
rather glad of the fact, in my present condition of mind.”

“What condition of mind?” asked Velchaninoff, frowning.

The visitor raised his eyes to Velchaninoff’s, lifted his hat from the
ground beside him, and with great dignity pointed out the black crape
band.

“There, sir, in _that_ condition of mind!” he observed.

Velchaninoff stared stupidly at the crape, and thence at the man’s face.
Suddenly his face flushed up in a hot blush for a moment, and he was
violently agitated.

“Not Natalia Vasilievna, surely?”

“Yes, Natalia Vasilievna! Last March! Consumption, sir, and almost
suddenly—all over in two or three months—and here am I left as you see
me!”

So saying, Pavel Pavlovitch, with much show of feeling, bent his bald head
down and kept it bent for some ten seconds, while he held out his two
hands, in one of which was the hat with the band, in explanatory emotion.

This gesture, and the man’s whole air, seemed to brighten Velchaninoff up;
he smiled sarcastically for one instant, not more at present, for the news
of this lady’s death (he had known her so long ago, and had forgotten her
many a year since) had made a quite unexpected impression upon his mind.

“Is it possible!” he muttered, using the first words that came to his
lips, “and pray why did you not come here and tell me at once?”

“Thanks for your kind interest, I see and value it, in spite of——”

“In spite of what?”

“In spite of so many years of separation you at once sympathised with my
sorrow—and in fact with myself, and so fully too—that I feel naturally
grateful. That’s all I had to tell you, sir! Don’t suppose I doubt my
friends, you know; why, even here, in this place, I could put my finger on
several very sincere friends indeed (for instance, Stepan Michailovitch
Bagantoff); but remember, my dear Aleksey Ivanovitch—nine years have
passed since we were acquaintances—or friends, if you’ll allow me to say
so—and meanwhile you have never been to see us, never written.”

The guest sang all this out as though he were reading it from music, but
kept his eyes fixed on the ground the while, although, of course, he saw
what was going on above his eyelashes exceedingly well all the same.

Velchaninoff had found his head by this time.

With a strange sort of fascinated attention, which strengthened itself
every moment, he continued to gaze at and listen to Pavel Pavlovitch, and
of a sudden, when the latter stopped speaking, a flood of curious ideas
swept unexpectedly through his brain.

“But look here,” he cried, “how is it that I never recognized you all this
while?—we’ve met five times, at least, in the streets!”

“Quite so—I am perfectly aware of the circumstance. You chanced to meet me
two or three times, and——”

“No, no! _you_ met _me_, you know—not I you!” Velchaninoff suddenly burst
into a roar of laughter, and rose from his seat. Pavel Pavlovitch paused a
moment, looked keenly at Velchaninoff, and then continued:

“As to your not recognizing me, in the first place you might easily have
forgotten me by now; and besides, I have had small-pox since last we met,
and I daresay my face is a good deal marked.”

“Smallpox? why, how did you manage that?—he has had it, though, by Jove!”
cried Velchaninoff. “What a funny fellow you are—however, go on, don’t
stop.”

Velchaninoff’s spirits were rising higher and higher; he was beginning to
feel wonderfully light-hearted. That feeling of agitation which had lately
so disturbed him had given place to quite a different sentiment. He now
began to stride up and down the room, very quickly.

“I was going to say,” resumed Pavel Pavlovitch, “that though I have met
you several times, and though I quite intended to come and look you up,
when I was arranging my visit to Petersburg, still, I was in that
condition of mind, you know, and my wits have so suffered since last
March, that——”

“Wits since last March,—yes, go on: wait a minute—do you smoke?”

“Oh—you know, Natalia Vasilievna, never—”

“Quite so; but since March—eh?”

“Well—I might, a cigarette or so.”

“Here you are, then! Light up and go on,—go on! you interest me
wonderfully.”

Velchaninoff lit a cigar and sat down on his bed again. Pavel Pavlovitch
paused a moment.

“But what a state of agitation you seem to be in yourself!” said he, “are
you quite well?”

“Oh, curse my health!” cried Velchaninoff,—“you go on!”

The visitor observed his host’s agitation with satisfaction; he went on
with his share of the talking with more confidence.

“What am I to go on about?” he asked. “Imagine me, Alexey Ivanovitch—a
broken man,—not simply broken, but gone at the root, as it were; a man
forced to change his whole manner of living, after twenty years of married
life, wandering about the dusty roads without an object,—mind lost—almost
oblivious of his own self,—and yet, as it were, taking some sort of
intoxicated delight in his loneliness! Isn’t it natural that if I should,
at such a moment of self-forgetfulness come across a friend—even a _dear_
friend, I might prefer to avoid him for that moment? and isn’t it equally
natural that at another moment I should long to see and speak with some
one who has been an eye-witness of, or a partaker, so to speak, in my
never-to-be-recalled past? and to rush—not only in the day, but at night,
if it so happens,—to rush to the embrace of such a man?—yes, even if one
has to wake him up at three in the morning to do it! I was wrong in my
time, not in my estimate of my friend, though, for at this moment I feel
the full rapture of success; my rash action has been successful: I have
found sympathy! As for the time of night, I confess I thought it was not
twelve yet! You see, one sups of grief, and it intoxicates one,—at least,
not grief, exactly, it’s more the condition of mind—the new state of
things that affects me.”

“Dear me, how oddly you express yourself!” said Velchaninoff, rising from
his seat once more, and becoming quite serious again.

“Oddly, do I? Perhaps.”

“Look here: are you joking?”

“Joking!” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, in shocked surprise; “_joking_—at the
very moment when I am telling you of——”

“Oh—be quiet about that! for goodness sake.”

Velchaninoff started off on his journey up and down the room again.

So matters stood for five minutes or so: the visitor seemed inclined to
rise from his chair, but Velchaninoff bade him sit still, and Pavel
Pavlovitch obediently flopped into his seat again.

“How changed you are!” said the host at last, stopping in front of the
other chair, as though suddenly struck with the idea; “fearfully changed!”

“Wonderful! you’re quite another man!”

“That’s hardly surprising! _nine_ years, sir!”

“No, no, no! years have nothing to do with it! it’s not in appearance you
are so changed: it’s something else!”

“Well, sir, the nine years might account for anything.”

“Perhaps it’s only since March, eh?”

“Ha-ha! you are playful, sir,” said Pavel Pavlovitch, laughing slyly.
“But, if I may ask it, wherein am I so changed?”

“Oh—why, you used to be such a staid, sober, correct Pavel Pavlovitch;
such a wise Pavel Pavlovitch; and now you’re a good-for-nothing sort of
Pavel Pavlovitch.”

Velchaninoff was in that state of irritation when the steadiest, gravest
people will sometimes say rather more than they mean.

“Good-for-nothing, am I? and _wise_ no longer, I suppose, eh?” chuckled
Pavel Pavlovitch, with disagreeable satisfaction.

“Wise, indeed! My dear sir, I’m afraid you are not sober,” replied
Velchaninoff; and added to himself, “I am pretty fairly insolent myself,
but I can’t compare with this little cad! And what on earth is the fellow
driving at?”

“Oh, my dear, good, my best of Alexey Ivanovitches,” said the visitor
suddenly, most excitedly, and twisting about on his chair, “and why
_should_ I be sober? We are not moving in the brilliant walks of
society—you and I—just now. We are but two dear old friends come together
in the full sincerity of perfect love, to recall and talk over that sweet
mutual tie of which the dear departed formed so treasured a link in our
friendship.”

So saying, the sensitive gentleman became so carried away by his feelings
that he bent his head down once more, to hide his emotion, and buried his
face in his hat.

Velchaninoff looked on with an uncomfortable feeling of disgust.

“I can’t help thinking the man is simply silly,” he thought; “and yet—no,
no—his face is so red he must be drunk. But drunk or not drunk, what does
the little wretch want with me? That’s the puzzle.”

“Do you remember—oh, _don’t_ you remember—our delightful little
evenings—dancing sometimes, or sometimes literary—at Simeon
Simeonovitch’s?” continued the visitor, gradually removing his hat from
before his face, and apparently growing more and more enthusiastic over
the memories of the past, “and our little readings—you and she and
myself—and our first meeting, when you came in to ask for information
about something connected with your business in the town, and commenced
shouting angrily at me; don’t you remember—when suddenly in came Natalia
Vasilievna, and within ten minutes you were our dear friend, and so
remained for exactly a year? Just like Turgenieff’s story ‘The
Provincialka!’ ”

Velchaninoff had continued his walk up and down the room during this
_tirade_, with his eyes on the ground, listening impatiently and with
disgust—but listening _hard_, all the same.

“It never struck me to think of ’The Provincialka’ in connection with the
matter,” he interrupted. “And look here, why do you talk in that sneaking,
whining sort of voice? You never used to do that. Your whole manner is
unlike yourself.”

“Quite so, quite so. I used to be more silent, I know. I used to love to
listen while others talked. You remember how well the dear departed
talked—the wit and grace of her conversation. As to The Provincialka, I
remember she and I used often to compare your friendship for us to certain
episodes in that piece, and especially to the doings of one Stupendief. It
really was remarkably like that character and his doings.”

“What Stupendief do you mean, confound it all?” cried Velchaninoff,
stamping his foot with rage. The name seemed to have evoked certain most
irritating thoughts in his mind.

“Why, Stupendief, don’t you know, the ‘husband’ in ‘Provincialka,’ ”
whined Pavel Pavlovitch, in the very sweetest of tones; “but that belongs
to another set of fond memories—after you departed, in fact, when Mr.
Bagantoff had honoured us with his friendship, just as you had done before
him, only that his lasted five whole years.”

“Bagantoff? What Bagantoff? Do you mean that same Bagantoff who was
serving down in your town? Why, he also——”

“Yes, yes! quite so. He also, he also!” cried the enthusiastic Pavel
Pavlovitch, seizing upon Velchaninoff’s accidental slip. “Of course! So
that there you are—there’s the whole company. Bagantoff played the
‘count,’ the dear departed was the ‘Provincialka,’ and I was the
‘husband,’ only that the part was taken away from me, for incapacity, I
suppose!”

“Yes; fancy _you_ a Stupendief. You’re a—you’re first a Pavel Pavlovitch
Trusotsky!” said Velchaninoff, contemptuously, and very unceremoniously.
“But look here! Bagantoff is in town; I know he is, for I have seen him.
Why don’t you go to see _him_ as well as myself?”

“My dear sir, I’ve been there every day for the last three weeks. He won’t
receive me; he’s ill, and can’t receive! And, do you know, I have found
out that he really is very ill! Fancy my feelings—a five-year’s friend!
Oh, my dear Alexey Ivanovitch! you don’t know what my feelings are in my
present condition of mind. I assure you, at one moment I long for the
earth to open and swallow me up, and the next I feel that I _must_ find
one of those old friends, eyewitnesses of the past, as it were, if only to
weep on his bosom, only to weep, sir—give you my word.”

“Well, that’s about enough for to-night; don’t you think so?” said
Velchaninoff, cuttingly.

“Oh, too—too much!” cried the other, rising. “It must be four o’clock; and
here am I agitating your feelings in the most selfish way.”

“Now, look here; I shall call upon you myself, and I hope that you will
then——but, tell me honestly, are you drunk to-night?”

“Drunk! not the least in the world!”

“Did you drink nothing before you came here, or earlier?”

“Do you know, my dear Alexey Ivanovitch, you are quite in a high fever!”

“Good-night. I shall call to-morrow.”

“And I have noticed it all the evening, really quite delirious!” continued
Pavel Pavlovitch, licking his lips, as it were, with satisfaction as he
pursued this theme. “I am really quite ashamed that I should have allowed
myself to be so awkward as to agitate you. Well, well; I’m going! Now you
must lie down at once and go to sleep.”

“You haven’t told me where you live,” shouted Velchaninoff after him as he
left the room.

“Oh, didn’t I? Pokrofsky Hotel.”

Pavel Pavlovitch was out on the stairs now.

“Stop!” cried Velchaninoff, once more. “You are not ‘running away,’ are
you?”

“How do you mean, ‘running away?’ ” asked Pavel Pavlovitch, turning round
at the third step, and grinning back at him, with his eyes staring very
wide open.

Instead of replying, Velchaninoff banged the door fiercely, locked and
bolted it, and went fuming back into his room. Arrived there, he spat on
the ground, as though to get rid of the taste of something loathsome.

He then stood motionless for at least five minutes, in the centre of the
room; after which he threw himself upon his bed, and fell asleep in an
instant.

The forgotten candle burned itself out in its socket.

CHAPTER IV.

Velchaninoff slept soundly until half-past nine, at which hour he started
up, sat down on the side of his bed, and began to think.

His thoughts quickly fixed themselves upon the death of “that woman.”

The agitating impression wrought upon his mind by yesterday’s news as to
her death had left a painful feeling of mental perturbation.

This morning the whole of the events of nine years back stood out before
his mind’s eye with extraordinary distinctness.

He had loved this woman, Natalia Vasilievna—Trusotsky’s wife,—he had loved
her, and had acted the part of her lover during the time which he had
spent in their provincial town (while engaged in business connected with a
legacy); he had lived there a whole year, though his business did not
require by any means so long a visit; in fact, the tie above mentioned had
detained him in the place.

He had been so completely under the influence of this passion, that
Natalia Vasilievna had held him in a species of slavery. He would have
obeyed the slightest whim or the wildest caprice of the woman, at that
time. He had never, before or since, experienced anything approaching to
the infatuation she had caused.

When the time came for departing, Velchaninoff had been in a state of such
absolute despair, though the parting was to have been but a short one,
that he had begged Natalia Vasilievna to leave all and fly across the
frontier with him; and it was only by laughing him out of the idea (though
she had at first encouraged it herself, probably for a joke), and by
unmercifully chaffing him, that the lady eventually persuaded Velchaninoff
to depart alone.

However, he had not been a couple of months in St. Petersburg before he
found himself asking himself that question which he had never to this day
been able to answer satisfactorily, namely, “_Did_ he love this woman at
all, or was it nothing but the infatuation of the moment?” He did not ask
this question because he was conscious of any new passion taking root in
his heart; on the contrary, during those first two months in town he had
been in that condition of mind that he had not so much as looked at a
woman, though he had met hundreds, and had returned to his old society
ways at once. And yet he knew perfectly well that if he were to return to
T—— he would instantly fall into the meshes of his passion for Natalia
Vasilievna once more, in spite of the question which he could not answer
as to the reality of his love for her.

Five years later he was as convinced of this fact as ever, although the
very thought of it was detestable to him, and although he did not remember
the name of Natalia Vasilievna but with loathing.

He was ashamed of that episode at T——. He could not understand how he
(Velchaninoff) could ever have allowed himself to become the victim of
such a stupid passion. He blushed whenever he thought of the shameful
business—blushed, and even wept for shame.

He managed to forget his remorse after a few more years—he felt sure that
he had “lived it down;” and yet now, after nine years, here was the whole
thing resuscitated by the news of Natalia’s death.

At all events, however, now, as he sat on his bed with agitating thoughts
swarming through his brain, he could not but feel that the fact of her
being dead was a consolation, amidst all the painful reflections which the
mention of her name had called up.

“Surely I am a little sorry for her?” he asked himself.

Well, he certainly did not feel that sensation of hatred for her now; he
could think of her and judge her now without passion of any kind, and
therefore more justly.

He had long since been of opinion that in all probability there had been
nothing more in Natalia Vasilievna than is to be found in every lady of
good provincial society, and that he himself had created the whole
“fantasy” of his worship and her worshipfulness; but though he had formed
this opinion, he always doubted its correctness, and he still felt that
doubt now. Facts existed to contradict the theory. For instance, this
Bagantoff had lived for several years at T——, and had been no less a
victim to passion for this woman, and had been as helpless as Velchaninoff
himself under her witchery. Bagantoff, though a young idiot (as
Velchaninoff expressed it), was nevertheless a scion of the very highest
society in St. Petersburg. His career was in St. Petersburg, and it was
significant that such a man should have wasted five important years of his
life at T—— simply out of love for this woman. It was said that he had
only returned to Petersburg even then because the lady had had enough of
him; so that, all things considered, there must have been something which
rendered Natalia Vasilievna preeminently attractive among women.

Yet the woman was not rich; she was not even pretty (if not absolutely
_plain_!) Velchaninoff had known her when she was twenty-eight years old.
Her face was capable of taking a pleasing expression, but her eyes were
not good—they were too hard. She was a thin, bony woman to look at. Her
mind was intelligent, but narrow and one-sided. She had tact and taste,
especially as to dress. Her character was firm and overbearing. She was
never wrong (in her own opinion) or unjust. The unfaithfulness towards her
husband never caused her the slightest remorse; she hated corruption, and
yet she was herself corrupt; and she believed in herself absolutely.
Nothing could ever have persuaded her that she herself was actually
depraved; Velchaninoff believed that she really did not know that her own
corruption was corrupt. He considered her to be “one of those women who
only exist to be unfaithful wives.” Such women never remain unmarried,—it
is the law of their nature to marry,—their husband is their first lover,
and he is always to blame for anything that may happen afterwards; the
unfaithful wife herself being invariably _absolutely_ in the right, and of
course perfectly innocent.

So thought Velchaninoff; and he was convinced that such a type of woman
actually existed; but he was no less convinced that there also existed a
corresponding type of men, born to be the husbands of such women. In his
opinion the mission of such men was to be, so to speak, “permanent
husbands,”—that is, to be husbands all their lives, and nothing else.

Velchaninoff had not the smallest doubt as to the existence of these two
types, and Pavel Pavlovitch Trusotsky was, in his opinion, an excellent
representative of the male type. Of course, the Pavel Pavlovitch of last
night was by no means the same Pavel Pavlovitch as he had known at T——. He
had found an extraordinary change in the man; and yet, on reflection, he
was bound to admit that the change was but natural, for that he could only
have remained what he was so long as his wife lived; and that now he was
but a part of a whole, allowed to wander at will—that is, an imperfect
being, a surprising, an incomprehensible sort of a _thing_, without proper
balance.

As for the Pavel Pavlovitch of T——, this is what Velchaninoff remembered
of him:

Pavel Pavlovitch had been a husband, of course,—a formality,—and that was
all. If, for instance, he was a clerk of department besides, he was so
merely in his capacity of, and as a part of his responsibility as—a
husband. He worked for his wife, and for her social position. He had been
thirty-five years old at that time, and was possessed of some considerable
property. He had not shown any special talent, nor, on the other hand, any
marked incapacity in his professional employment; his position had been
decidedly a good one.

Natalia Vasilievna had been respected and looked up to by all; not that
she valued their respect in the least,—she considered it merely as her
due. She was a good hostess, and had schooled Pavel Pavlovitch into polite
manners, so that he was able to receive and entertain the very best
society passably well.

He might be a clever man, for all Velchaninoff knew, but as Natalia
Vasilievna did not like her husband to talk much, there was little
opportunity of judging. He may have had many good qualities, as well as
bad; but the good ones were, so to speak, kept put away in their cases,
and the bad ones were stifled and not allowed to appear. Velchaninoff
remembered, for instance, that Pavel Pavlovitch had once or twice shown a
disposition to laugh at those about him, but this unworthy proclivity had
been very promptly subdued. He had been fond of telling stories, but this
was not allowed either; or, if permitted at all, the anecdote was to be of
the shortest and most uninteresting description.

Pavel Pavlovitch had a circle of private friends outside the house, with
whom he was fain, at times, to taste the flowing bowl; but this vicious
tendency was radically stamped out as soon as possible.

And yet, with all this, Natalia Vasilievna appeared, to the uninitiated,
to be the most obedient of wives, and doubtless considered herself so.
Pavel Pavlovitch may have been desperately in love with her,—no one could
say as to this.

Velchaninoff had frequently asked himself during his life at T——, whether
Pavel Pavlovitch ever suspected his wife of having formed the tie with
himself, of which mention has been made. Velchaninoff had several times
questioned Natalia Vasilievna on this point, seriously enough; but had
invariably been told, with some show of annoyance, that her husband
neither did know, nor ever could know; and that “all there might be to
know was not his business!”

Another trait in her character was that she never laughed at Pavel
Pavlovitch, and never found him funny in any sense; and that she would
have been down on any person who dared to be rude to him, at once!

Pavel Pavlovitch’s reference to the pleasant little readings enjoyed by
the trio nine years ago was accurate; they used to read Dickens’ novels
together. Velchaninoff or Trusotsky reading aloud, while Natalia
Vasilievna worked. The life at T—— had ended suddenly, and so far as
Velchaninoff was concerned, in a way which drove him almost to the verge
of madness. The fact is, he was simply turned out—although it was all
managed in such a way that he never observed that he was being thrown over
like an old worn-out shoe.

A young artillery officer had appeared in the town a month or so before
Velchaninoff’s departure and had made acquaintance with the Trusotsky’s.
The trio became a quartet. Before long Velchaninoff was informed that for
many reasons a separation was absolutely necessary; Natalia Vasilievna
adduced a hundred excellent reasons why this had become unavoidable—and
especially one which quite settled the matter. After his stormy attempt to
persuade Natalia Vasilievna to fly with him to Paris—or
anywhere,—Velchaninoff had ended by going to St. Petersburg alone—for two
or three months at the _very most_, as he said,—otherwise he would refuse
to go at all, in spite of every reason and argument Natalia might adduce.

Exactly two months later Velchaninoff had received a letter from Natalia
Vasilievna, begging him to come no more to T——, because that she already
loved another. As to the principal reason which she had brought forward in
favour of his immediate departure, she now informed him that she had made
a mistake. Velchaninoff remembered the young artilleryman, and
understood,—and so the matter had ended, once and for all. A year or two
after this Bagantoff appeared at T——, and an intimacy between Natalia
Vasilievna and the former had sprung up which lasted for five years. This
long period of constancy, Velchaninoff attributed to advancing age on the
part of Natalia. He sat on the side of his bed for nearly an hour and
thought. At last he roused himself, rang for Mavra and his coffee, drank
it off quickly—dressed—and punctually at eleven was on his way to the
Pokrofsky Hotel: he felt rather ashamed of his behaviour to Pavel
Pavlovitch last night. Velchaninoff put down all that phantasmagoria of
the trying of the lock and so on to Pavel Pavlovitch’s drunken condition
and to other reasons,—but he did not know why he was now on his way to
make fresh relations with the husband of that woman, since their
acquaintanceship and intercourse had come to so natural and simple a
termination; yet something seemed to draw him thither—some strong current
of impulse,—and he went.

CHAPTER V.

Pavel Pavlovitch was not thinking of “running away,” and goodness knows
why Velchaninoff should have asked him such a question last night—he did
not know himself why he had said it!

He was directed to the Petrofsky Hotel, and found the building at once. At
the hotel he was told that Pavel Pavlovitch had now engaged a furnished
lodging in the back part of the same house.

Mounting the dirty and narrow stairs indicated, as far as the third
storey, he suddenly became aware of someone crying. It sounded like the
weeping of a child of some seven or eight years of age; it was a bitter,
but a more or less suppressed sort of crying, and with it came the sound
of a grown man’s voice, apparently trying to quiet the child—anxious that
its sobbing and crying should not be heard,—and yet only succeeding in
making it cry the louder.

The man’s voice did not seem in any way sympathetic with the child’s
grief; and the latter appeared to be begging for forgiveness.

Making his way into a narrow dark passage with two doors on each side of
it, Velchaninoff met a stout-looking, elderly woman, in very careless
morning attire, and inquired for Pavel Pavlovitch.

She tapped the door with her fingers in response to his inquiry—the same
door, apparently, whence issued the noises just mentioned. Her fat face
seemed to flush with indignation as she did so.

“He appears to be amusing himself in there!” she said, and proceeded
downstairs.

Velchaninoff was about to knock, but thought better of it and opened the
door without ceremony.

In the very middle of a room furnished with plain, but abundant furniture,
stood Pavel Pavlovitch in his shirt-sleeves, very red in the face, trying
to persuade a little girl to do something or other, and using cries and
gestures, and what looked to Velchaninoff very like kicks, in order to
effect his purpose. The child appeared to be some seven or eight years of
age, and was poorly dressed in a short black stuff frock. She seemed to be
in a most hysterical condition, crying and stretching out her arms to
Pavel Pavlovitch, as though begging and entreating him to allow her to do
whatever it might be she desired.

On Velchaninoff’s appearance the scene changed in an instant. No sooner
did her eyes fall on the visitor than the child made for the door of the
next room, with a cry of alarm; while Pavel Pavlovitch—thrown out for one
little instant—immediately relaxed into smiles of great sweetness—exactly
as he had done last night, when Velchaninoff suddenly opened his front
door and caught him standing outside.

“Alexey Ivanovitch!” he cried in real surprise; “who ever would have
thought it! Sit down—sit down—take the sofa—or this chair,—sit down, my
dear sir! I’ll just put on——” and he rushed for his coat and threw it on,
leaving his waistcoat behind.

“Don’t stand on ceremony with me,” said Velchaninoff sitting down; “stay
as you are!”

“No, sir, no! excuse me—I insist upon standing on ceremony. There, now!
I’m a little more respectable! Dear me, now, who ever would have thought
of seeing _you_ here!—not I, for one!”

Pavel Pavlovitch sat down on the edge of a chair, which he turned so as to
face Velchaninoff.

“And pray _why_ shouldn’t you have expected me? I told you last night that
I was coming this morning!”

“I thought you wouldn’t come, sir—I did indeed; in fact, when I thought
over yesterday’s visit, I despaired of ever seeing you again: I did
indeed, sir!”

Velchaninoff glanced round the room meanwhile. The place was very untidy;
the bed was unmade; the clothes thrown about the floor; on the table were
two coffee tumblers with the dregs of coffee still in them, and a bottle
of champagne half finished, and with a tumbler standing alongside it. He
glanced at the next room, but all was quiet there; the little girl had
hidden herself, and was as still as a mouse.

“You don’t mean to say you drink that stuff at this time of day?” he
asked, indicating the champagne bottle.

“It’s only a remnant,” explained Pavel Pavlovitch, a little confused.

“My word! You _are_ a changed man!”

“Bad habits, sir; and all of a sudden. All dating from that time, sir.
Give you my word, I couldn’t resist it. But I’m all right now—I’m not
drunk—I shan’t talk twaddle as I did last night; don’t be afraid sir, it’s
all right! From that very day, sir; give you my word it is! And if anyone
had told me half a year ago that I should become like this,—if they had
shown me my face in a glass then as I should be _now_, I should have given
them the lie, sir; I should indeed!”

“Hem! Then you _were_ drunk last night?”

“Yes—I was!” admitted Pavel Pavlovitch, a little guiltily—“not exactly
_drunk_, a little _beyond_ drunk!—I tell you this by way of explanation,
because I’m always worse _after_ being drunk! If I’m only a little drunk,
still the violence and unreasonableness of intoxication come out
afterwards, and stay out too; and then I feel my grief the more keenly. I
daresay my grief is responsible for my drinking. I am capable of making an
awful fool of myself and offending people when I’m drunk. I daresay I
seemed strange enough to you last night?”

“Don’t you remember what you said and did?”

“Assuredly I do—I remember everything!”

“Listen to me, Pavel Pavlovitch: I have thought it over and have come to
very much the same conclusion as you did yourself,” began Velchaninoff
gently; “besides—I believe I was a little too irritable towards you last
night—too impatient,—I admit it gladly; the fact is—I am not very well
sometimes, and your sudden arrival, you know, in the middle of the
night——”

“In the middle of the night: you are quite right—it was!” said Pavel
Pavlovitch, wagging his head assentingly; “how in the world could I have
brought myself to do such a thing? I shouldn’t have come in, though, if
you hadn’t opened the door. I should have gone as I came. I called on you
about a week ago, and did not find you at home, and I daresay I should
never have called again; for I am rather proud—Alexey Ivanovitch—in spite
of my present state. Whenever I have met you in the streets I have always
said to myself, ‘What if he doesn’t know me and rejects me—nine years is
no joke!’ and I did not dare try you for fear of being snubbed. Yesterday,
thanks to that sort of thing, you know,” (he pointed to the bottle), “I
didn’t know what time it was, and—it’s lucky you are the kind of man you
are, Alexey Ivanovitch, or I should despair of preserving your
acquaintance, after yesterday! You remember old times, Alexey Ivanovitch!”

Velchaninoff listened keenly to all this. The man seemed to be talking
seriously enough, and even with some dignity; and yet he had not believed
a single word that Pavel Pavlovitch had uttered from the very first moment
that he entered the room.

“Tell me, Pavel Pavlovitch,” said Velchaninoff at last, “—I see you are
not quite alone here,—whose little girl is that I saw when I came in?”

Pavel Pavlovitch looked surprised and raised his eyebrow; but he gazed
back at Velchaninoff with candour and apparent amiability:

“Whose little girl? Why that’s our Liza!” he said, smiling affably.

“What Liza?” asked Velchaninoff,—and something seemed to cause him to
shudder inwardly.

The sensation was dreadfully sudden. Just now, on entering the room and
seeing Liza, he had felt surprised more or less,—but had not been
conscious of the slightest feeling of presentiment,—indeed he had had no
special thought about the matter, at the moment.

“Why—_our_ Liza!—our daughter Liza!” repeated Pavel Pavlovitch, smiling.

“Your daughter? Do you mean to say that you and Natalia Vasilievna had
children?” asked Velchaninoff timidly, and in a very low tone of voice
indeed!

“Of course—but—what a fool I am—how in the world should _you_ know!
Providence sent us the gift after you had gone!”

Pavel Pavlovitch jumped off his chair in apparently pleasurable
excitement.

“I heard nothing of it!” said Velchaninoff, looking very pale.

“How should you? how should you?” repeated Pavel Pavlovitch with ineffable
sweetness. “We had quite lost hope of any children—as you may
remember,—when suddenly Heaven sent us this little one. And, oh! my
feelings—Heaven alone knows what I felt! Just a year after you went, I
think—no, wait a bit—not a year by a long way!—Let’s see, you left us in
October, or November, didn’t you?”

“I left T—— on the twelfth of September, I remember well.”

“Hum! September was it? Dear me! Well, then, let’s see—September, October,
November, December, January, February, March, April—to the 8th of May—that
was Liza’s birthday—eight months all but a bit; and if you could only have
seen the dear departed, how rejoiced——”

“Show her to me—call her in!” the words seemed to tear themselves from
Velchaninoff, whether he liked it or no.

“Certainly—this moment!” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, forgetting that he had
not finished his previous sentence, or ignoring the fact; and he hastily
left the room, and entered the small chamber adjoining.

Three or four minutes passed by, while Velchaninoff heard the rapid
interchange of whispers going on, and an occasional rather louder sound of
Liza’s voice, apparently entreating her father to leave her alone—so
Velchaninoff concluded.

At last the two came out.

“There you are—she’s dreadfully shy and proud,” said Pavel Pavlovitch;
“just like her mother.”

Liza entered the room without tears, but with eyes downcast, her father
leading her by the hand. She was a tall, slight, and very pretty little
girl. She raised her large blue eyes to the visitor’s face with curiosity;
but only glanced surlily at him, and dropped them again. There was that in
her expression that one always sees in children when they look on some new
guest for the first time—retiring to a corner, and looking out at him
thence seriously and mistrustingly; only that there was a something in her
manner beyond the usual childish mistrust—so, at least thought
Velchaninoff.

Her father brought her straight up to the visitor.

“There—this gentleman knew mother very well. He was our friend; you
mustn’t be shy,—give him your hand!”

The child bowed slightly, and timidly stretched out her hand.

“Natalia Vasilievna never would teach her to curtsey; she liked her to
bow, English fashion, and give her hand,” explained Pavel Pavlovitch,
gazing intently at Velchaninoff.

Velchaninoff knew perfectly well that the other was keenly examining him
at this moment, but he made no attempt to conceal his agitation: he sat
motionless on his chair and held the child’s hand in his, gazing into her
face the while.

But Liza was apparently much preoccupied, and did not take her eyes off
her father’s face; she listened timidly to every word he said.

Velchaninoff recognised her large blue eyes at once; but what specially
struck him was the refined pallor of her face, and the colour of her hair;
these traits were altogether too significant, in his eyes! Her features,
on the other hand, and the set of her lips, reminded him keenly of Natalia
Vasilievna. Meanwhile Pavel Pavlovitch was in the middle of some
apparently most interesting tale—one of great sentiment seemingly,—but
Velchaninoff did not hear a word of it until the last few words struck
upon his ear:

“... So that you can’t imagine what our joy was when Providence sent us
this gift, Alexey Ivanovitch! She was everything to me, for I felt that if
it should be the will of Heaven to deprive me of my other joy, I should
still have Liza left to me; that’s what I felt, sir, I did indeed!”

“And Natalia Vasilievna?” asked Velchaninoff.

“Oh, Natalia Vasilievna—” began Pavel Pavlovitch, smiling with one side of
his mouth; “she never used to like to say much—as you know yourself; but
she told me on her deathbed—deathbed! you know, sir—to the very day of her
death she used to get so angry and say that they were trying to cure her
with a lot of nasty medicines when she had nothing the matter but a simple
little feverish attack; and that when Koch arrived (you remember our old
doctor Koch?) he would make her all right in a fortnight. Why, five hours
before she died she was talking of fixing that day three weeks for a visit
to her Aunt, Liza’s godmother, at her country place!” Velchaninoff here
started from his seat, but still held the child’s hand. He could not help
thinking that there was something reproachful in the girl’s persistent
stare in her father’s face.

“Is she ill?” he asked hurriedly, and his voice had a strange tone in it.

“No! I don’t think so” said Pavel Pavlovitch; “but, you see our way of
living here, and all that: she’s a strange child and very nervous,
besides! After her mother’s death she was quite ill and hysterical for a
fortnight. Just before you came in she was crying like anything; and do
you know what about, sir? Do you hear me, Liza?—You listen!—Simply because
I was going out, and wished to leave her behind, and because she said I
didn’t love her so well as I used to in her mother’s time. That’s what she
pitches into me for! Fancy a child like this getting hold of such an
idea!—a child who ought to be playing at dolls, instead of developing
ideas of that sort! The thing is, she has no one to play with here.”

“Then—then—are you two quite alone here?”

“Quite! a servant comes in once a day, that’s all!”

“And when you go out, do you leave her quite alone?”

“Of course! What else am I to do? Yesterday I locked her in that room, and
that’s what all the tears were about this morning. What could I do? the
day before yesterday she went down into the yard all by herself, and a boy
took a shot at her head with a stone! Not only that, but she must needs go
and cling on to everybody she met, and ask where I had gone to! That’s not
so very pleasant, you see! But I oughtn’t to complain when I say I am
going out for an hour and then stay out till four in the morning, as I did
last night! The landlady came and let her out: she had the door broken
open! Nice for my feelings, eh! It’s all the result of the eclipse that
came over my life; nothing but that, sir!”

“Papa!” said the child, timidly and anxiously.

“Now, then! none of that again! What did I tell you yesterday?”

“I won’t; I won’t!” cried the child hurriedly, clasping her hands before
her entreatingly.

“Come! things can’t be allowed to go on in this way!” said Velchaninoff
impatiently, and with authority. “In the first place, you are a man of
property; how can you possibly live in a hole like this, and in such
disorder?”

“This place! Oh, but we shall probably have left this place within a week;
and I’ve spent a lot of money here, as it is, though I may be ’a man of
property;’ and——”

“Very well, that’ll do,” interrupted Velchaninoff with growing impatience,
“now, I’ll make you a proposition: you have just said that you intend to
stay another week—perhaps two. I have a house here—or rather I know a
family where I am as much at home as at my own fireside, and have been so
for twenty years. The family I mean is the Pogoryeltseffs—Alexander
Pavlovitch Pogoryeltseff is a state councillor (he may be of use to you in
your business!) They are now living in the country—they have a beautiful
country villa; Claudia Petrovna, the lady of the house, is like a
sister—like a mother to me; they have eight children. Let me take Liza
down to them without loss of time! they’ll receive her with joy, and
they’ll treat her like their own little daughter—they will, indeed!”

Velchaninoff was in a great hurry, and much excited, and he did not
conceal his feelings.

“I’m afraid it’s impossible!” said Pavel Pavlovitch with a grimace,
looking straight into his visitor’s eyes, very cunningly, as it seemed to
Velchaninoff.

“Why! why, impossible?”

“Oh, why! to let the child go—so suddenly, you know, of course with such a
sincere well-wisher as yourself—it’s not that!—but a strange house—and
such swells, too!—I don’t know whether they would receive her!”

“But I tell you I’m like a son of the house!” cried Velchaninoff, almost
angrily. “Claudia Petrovna will be delighted to take her, at one word from
me! She’d receive her as though she were my own daughter. Deuce take it,
sir, you know you are only humbugging me,—what’s the use of talking about
it?”

He stamped his foot.

“No—no! I mean to say—don’t it look a little strange? Oughtn’t I to call
once or twice first?—such a smart house as you say theirs is—don’t you
see——”

“I tell you it’s the simplest house in the world; it isn’t ‘smart’ in the
least bit,” cried Velchaninoff; “they have a lot of children: it will make
another girl of her!—I’ll introduce you there myself, to-morrow, if you
like. Of course you’ll have to go and thank them, and all that. You shall
go down every day with me, if you please.”

“Oh, but——”

“Nonsense! You know it’s nonsense! Now look here: you come to me this
evening—I’ll put you up for the night—and we’ll start off early to-morrow
and be down there by twelve.”

“Benefactor!—and I may spend the night at your house?” cried Pavel
Pavlovitch, instantly consenting to the plan with the greatest
cordiality,—“you are really _too_ good! And where’s their country house?”

“At the Liesnoy.”

“But look here, how about her dress? Such a house, you know,—a father’s
heart shrinks——”

“Nonsense!—she’s in mourning—what else could she wear but a black dress
like this? it’s exactly the thing; you couldn’t imagine anything more
so!—you might let her have some clean linen with her, and give her a
cleaner neck-handkerchief.”

“Directly, directly. We’ll get her linen together in a couple of
minutes—it’s just home from the wash!”

“Send for a carriage—can you? Tell them to let us have it at once, so as
not to waste time.”

But now an unexpected obstacle arose: Liza absolutely rejected the plan;
she had listened to it with terror, and if Velchaninoff had, in his
excited argument with Pavel Pavlovitch, had time to glance at the child’s
face, he would have observed her expression of absolute despair at this
moment.

“I won’t go!” she said, quietly but firmly.

“There—look at that! Just like her mamma!”

“I’m _not_ like mamma, I’m _not_ like mamma!” cried Liza, wringing her
little hands in despair. “Oh, papa—papa!” she added, “if you desert me—”
she suddenly threw herself upon the alarmed Velchaninoff—“If you take me
away—” she cried—“I’ll——”

But Liza had no time to finish her sentence, for Pavel Pavlovitch suddenly
seized her by the arm and collar and hustled her into the next room with
unconcealed rage. For several minutes Velchaninoff listened to the
whispering going on there,—whisperings and seemingly subdued crying on the
part of Liza. He was about to follow the pair, when suddenly out came
Pavel Pavlovitch, and stated—with a disagreeable grin—that Liza would come
directly.

Velchaninoff tried not to look at him and kept his eyes fixed on the other
side of the room.

The elderly woman whom Velchaninoff had met on the stairs also made her
appearance, and packed Liza’s things into a neat little carpet bag.

“Is it you that are going to take the little lady away, sir?” she asked;
“if so, you are doing a good deed! She’s a nice quiet child, and you are
saving her from goodness knows what, here!”

“Oh! come—Maria Sisevna,”—began Pavel Pavlovitch.

“Well? What? Isn’t it true! Arn’t you ashamed to let a girl of her
intelligence see the things that you allow to go on here? The carriage has
arrived for you, sir,—_you_ ordered one for the Liesnoy, didn’t you?”

“Yes.”

“Well, good luck to you!”

Liza came out, looking very pale and with downcast eyes; she took her bag,
but never glanced in Velchaninoff’s direction. She restrained herself and
did not throw herself upon her father, as she had done before—not even to
say good-bye. She evidently did not wish to look at him.

Her father kissed her and patted her head in correct form; her lip curled
during the operation, the chin trembled a little, but she did not raise
her eyes to her father’s.

Pavel Pavlovitch looked pale, and his hands shook; Velchaninoff saw that
plainly enough, although he did his best not to see the man at all. He
(Velchaninoff) had but one thought, and that was how to get away at once!

Downstairs was old Maria Sisevna, waiting to say good-bye; and more
kissing was done. Liza had just climbed into the carriage when suddenly
she caught sight of her father’s face; she gave a loud cry and wrung her
hands,—in another minute she would have been out of the carriage and away,
but luckily the vehicle went on and she was too late!

CHAPTER VI.

“Are you feeling faint?” asked Velchaninoff of his companion, frightened
out of his wits: “I’ll tell him to stop and get you some water, shall I?”

She looked at him angrily and reproachfully.

“Where are you taking me to?” she asked coldly and abruptly.

“To a very beautiful house, Liza. There are plenty of children,—they’ll
all love you there, they are so kind! Don’t be angry with me, Liza; I wish
you well, you know!”

In truth, Velchaninoff would have looked strange at this moment to any
acquaintance, if such had happened to see him!

“How—how—how—oh! _how_ wicked you are!” said Liza, fighting with
suppressed tears, and flashing her fine angry eyes at him.

“But Liza—I——”

“You are bad—bad—and wicked!” cried Liza. She wrung her hands.

Velchaninoff was beside himself.

“Oh, Liza, Liza! if only you knew what despair you are causing me!” he
said.

“Is it true that he is coming down to-morrow?” asked the child
haughtily—“is it true or not?”

“Quite true—I shall bring him down myself,—I shall take him and bring
him!”

“He will deceive you somehow!” cried the child, drooping her eyes.

“Doesn’t he love you, then, Liza?”

“No.”

“Has he ill-treated you,—has he?”

Liza looked gloomily at her questioner, and said nothing. She then turned
away from him and sat still and depressed.

Velchaninoff commenced to talk: he tried to win her,—he spoke
warmly—excitedly—feverishly.

Liza listened incredulously and with a hostile air,—but still she
listened. Her attention delighted him beyond measure;—he went so far as to
explain to her what it meant when a man took to drink. He said that he
loved her and would himself look after her father.

At last Liza raised her eyes and gazed fixedly at him.

Then Velchaninoff began to speak of her mother and of how well he had
known her; and he saw that his tales attracted her. Little by little she
began to reply to his questions, but very cautiously and in an obstinately
monosyllabic way.

She would answer nothing to his chief inquiries; as to her former
relations with her father, for instance, she maintained an obstinate
silence.

While speaking to her, Velchaninoff held the child’s hand in his own, as
before; and she did not try to take it away.

Liza said enough to make it apparent that she had loved her father more
than her mother at first, because that her father had loved the child
better than her mother did; but that when her mother had died and was
lying dead, Liza wept over her and kissed her, and ever since then she had
loved her mother more than all—all there was in the whole world—and that
every night she thought of her and loved her.

But Liza was very proud, and suddenly recollecting herself and finding
that she was saying a great deal more than she had meant to reveal, she
paused, and relapsed into obstinate silence once more, and gazed at
Velchaninoff with something like hatred in her eyes, considering that he
had beguiled her into the revelations just made.

By the end of the journey, however, her hysterical condition was nearly
over, but she was very silent and sat looking morosely about her,
obstinately silent and gloomy, like a little wild animal.

The fact that she was being taken to a strange house where she had never
been before did not seem so far to weigh upon her; Velchaninoff saw
clearly enough that other things distressed her, and principally that she
was ashamed—ashamed that her father should have let her go so
easily—thrown her away, as it were—into Velchaninoff’s arms.

“She’s ill,” thought the latter, “and perhaps very ill; she has been
bullied and ill-treated. Oh! that drunken, blackguardly wretch of a
fellow!” He hurried on the coachman. Velchaninoff trusted greatly to the
fresh air, to the garden, to the children, to the new life, now; as to the
future, he was in no sort of doubt at all, his hopes were clear and
defined. One thing he was quite sure of, and that was that he had never
before felt what now swelled within his soul, and that the sensation would
last for ever and ever.

“I have an object at last! this is Life!” he said to himself
enthusiastically.

Many thoughts welled into his brain just now, but he would have none of
them; he did not care to think of details at this moment, for without
details the future was all so clear and so beautiful, and so safe and
indestructible!

The basis of his plan was simple enough; it was simply this, in the
language of his own thoughts:

“I shall so work upon that drunken little blackguard that he will leave
Liza with the Pogoryeltseffs, and go away alone—at first, ‘for a time,’ of
course!—and so Liza shall remain behind for me! what more do I want? The
plan will suit him, too!—else why does he bully her like this?”

The carriage arrived at last.

It was certainly a very beautiful place. They were met first of all by a
troop of noisy children, who overflowed on to the front-door steps.
Velchaninoff had not been down for some time, and the delight of the
little ones to see him was excessive—they were very fond of him.

The elder ones shouted, before he had left the carriage, by way of chaff:

“How’s the lawsuit getting on, eh?” and the smaller gang took up the joke,
and all clamoured the same question: it was a pet joke in this
establishment to chaff Velchaninoff about his lawsuit. But when Liza
climbed down the carriage steps, she was instantly surrounded and stared
at with true juvenile curiosity. Then Claudia Petrovna and her husband
came out, and both of them good-humouredly bantered Velchaninoff about his
lawsuit.

Claudia Petrovna was a lady of some thirty-seven summers, stout and
well-favoured, and with a sweet fresh-looking face. Her husband was a man
of fifty-five, a clever and long-headed man of the world, but above all, a
good and kind-hearted friend to anyone requiring kindness.

The Pogoryeltseffs’ house was in the full sense of the word a “home” to
Velchaninoff, as the latter had stated. There was rather more here,
however; for, twenty years since Claudia had very nearly married young
Velchaninoff almost a boy at that time, and a student at the university.

This had been his first experience of love—and very hot and fiery and
funny—and sweet it was! The end of it was, however, that Claudia married
Mr Pogoryeltseff. Five years later she and Velchaninoff had met again, and
a quiet candid friendship had sprung up between them. Since then there had
always been a warmth, a speciality about their friendship, a radiance
which overspread it and glorified their relations one to the other. There
was nothing here that Velchaninoff could remember with shame—all was pure
and sweet; and this was perhaps the reason why the friendship was
specially dear to Velchaninoff; he had not experienced many such platonic
intimacies.

In this house Velchaninoff was simple and happy, confessed his sins,
played with the children and lectured them, and never bothered his head
about outside matters; he had promised the Pogoryeltseffs that he would
live a few more years alone in the world, and then move over to their
household for good and all; and he looked forward to that good time coming
with all seriousness.

Velchaninoff now gave all the information about Liza which he thought fit,
though his simple request would have been amply sufficient here.

Claudia Petrovna kissed the little “orphan,” and promised to do all she
possibly could for her; and the children carried Liza off to play in the
garden. Half an hour passed in conversation, and then Velchaninoff rose to
depart: he was in such a hurry, that his friends could not help remarking
upon the fact. He had not been near them for three weeks, they said, and
now he only stayed half an hour! Velchaninoff laughed and promised to come
down to-morrow. Someone observed that Velchaninoff’s state of agitation
was remarkable, even for _him_! Whereupon the latter jumped up, seized
Claudia Petrovna’s hand, and, under pretence of having forgotten to tell
her something most important about Liza, he led her into another room.

“Do you remember,” he began, “what I told you, and only you,—even your
husband does not know of it—about my year of life down at T——?”

“Oh yes! only too well! You have often spoken of it.”

“No—I did not ‘speak about it,’ I _confessed_, and only to yourself; but I
never told you the lady’s name. It was Trusotsky, the wife of this
Trusotsky; it is she who has died, and this little Liza is her child—_my_
child!”

“Is this certain? Are you quite sure there is no mistake?” asked Claudia
Petrovna, with some agitation.

“Quite, quite certain!” said Velchaninoff enthusiastically. He then gave a
short, hasty, and excited narrative of all that had occurred. Claudia had
heard it all before, excepting the lady’s name.

The fact is, Velchaninoff had always been so afraid that one of his
friends might some fine day meet Madame Trusotsky at T——, and wonder how
in the world he could have loved such a woman as that, that he had never
revealed her name to a single soul; not even to Claudia Petrovna, his
great friend.

“And does the ‘father’ know nothing of it?” asked Claudia, having heard
the tale out.

“N—no; he knows—you see, that’s just what is bothering me now. I haven’t
sifted the matter as yet,” resumed Velchaninoff hotly. “He must know—he
_does_ know. I remarked that fact both yesterday and to-day. But I wish to
discover _how much_ he knows. That’s why I am hurrying back now; he is
coming to-night. He knows all about Bagantoff; but how about myself? You
know how such wives can deceive their husbands! If an angel from Heaven
were to come down and convict a woman, her husband will still trust her,
and give the angel the lie.

“Oh! don’t nod your head at me, don’t judge me! I have long since judged
and convicted myself. You see, this morning I felt so sure that he knew
all, that I compromised myself before him. Fancy, I was really ashamed of
having been rude to him last night. He only called in to see me out of the
pure unconquerably malicious desire to show me that he knew all the
offence, and knew who was the offender! I behaved like a fool; I gave
myself into his hands too easily; I was too heated; he came at such a
feverish moment for me. I tell you, he has been bullying Liza, simply to
‘let off bile,’—you understand. He needs a safety-valve for his offended
feelings, and vents them upon _anyone_, even a little child!

“It is exasperation, and quite natural. We must treat him in a Christian
spirit, my friend; and do you know, I wish to change my way of treating
him, entirely; I wish to be particularly kind to him. That will be a good
action on my part, for I am to blame before him, I know I am; there’s no
disguising the fact! Besides, once at T——, it so happened that I required
four thousand roubles at a moment’s notice. Well, the fellow gave me the
money, without a receipt, at once, and with every manifestation of delight
to be able to serve me! And I took the money from his hands,—I did,
indeed! I took it as though he were a friend. Think of that!”

“Very well; only be careful!” said Claudia Petrovna. “You are so
enthusiastic that I am really alarmed for you! Of course Liza shall now be
no less than my own daughter to me; but there is so much to know and to
settle yet! Above all, be very careful and observant! You are not nearly
careful enough when you are happy! You are much too exalted an individual
to be cautious, when you are happy!” she added with a smile.

The whole family went out to see Velchaninoff off. The children brought
Liza along with them; they had been playing in the garden. They seemed to
look at her now with even more perplexity then at first! The girl became
dreadfully shy when Velchaninoff kissed her before all, and promised to
come down next day and bring her father with him. To the last moment she
did not say a single word, and never looked at him at all; but just before
he was about to start she seized his hand and drew him away to one side,
looking imploringly in his face: she evidently had something to say to
him. Velchaninoff immediately took her into an adjoining room.

“What is it, Liza?” he asked, kindly and encouragingly; but she drew him
farther away,—into the very farthest corner of the room, anxious to get
well out of sight and hearing of the rest.

“What is it, Liza? What is it?”

But she was still silent, and could not make up her mind to speak; she
stared with her motionless, large blue eyes, into his face, and in every
lineament of her little face was betrayed the wildest terror and anxiety.

“He’ll—hang himself!” she whispered at last, as though she were talking in
her sleep.

“Who will hang himself?” asked Velchaninoff, in alarm.

“He will—_he_! He tried to hang himself to a hook last night!” said the
child, panting with haste and excitement; “I saw it myself! To-day he
tried it again,—he wishes to hang himself; he told me so!—he told me so!
He wanted to, long ago; he has always wanted to do it! I saw it myself—in
the night!”

“Impossible!” muttered Velchaninoff, incredulously.

Liza suddenly threw herself into his arms, kissed his hands, and cried.
She could hardly breathe for sobbing; she was begging and imploring
Velchaninoff, but he could not understand what she was trying to say.

Velchaninoff never afterwards forgot the terrible look of this distressed
child; he thought of it waking and thought of it sleeping—how she had come
to him in her despair as to her last hope, and hysterically begged and
prayed him to help her! “And to think of her being so deeply attached to
him!” he reflected jealously, as he drove, impatient and feverish, towards
town. “She said herself that she loved her mother better;—perhaps she
hates him, and doesn’t love him at all! And what’s all that nonsense about
‘hanging himself!’ What did she mean by that? As if he would hang himself,
the fool! I must sift the matter—the whole matter. I must settle this
business once and for ever—and quickly!”

CHAPTER VII.

He was in a great hurry to “know all.” In order to lose no time about
finding out what he felt he must know at once, he told the coachman to
drive him straight to Trusotsky’s rooms. On the way he changed his mind;
“let him come to me, himself,” he thought, “and meanwhile I can attend to
my cursed law business.”

But to-day he really felt that he was too absent to attend to anything at
all; and at five o’clock he set out with the intention of dining. And at
this moment, for the first time, an amusing idea struck him. What if he
really only hindered his law business by meddling as he did, and hunting
his wretched lawyer about the place, when the latter plainly avoided
meeting him? Velchaninoff laughed merrily over this idea. “And yet,” he
thought; “if this notion had struck me in the evening instead of now, how
angry I should have been!” He laughed again, more merrily than before. But
in spite of his merriness he grew more and more thoughtful and impatient,
and could settle to nothing, nor could he think out what he most wanted to
reflect upon.

“I _must_ have that fellow here!” he said at length; “I must read the
mystery of _him_ first of all, and then I can settle what to do next.
There’s a duel in this business!”

Returning home at seven o’clock he did not find Pavel Pavlovitch there,
which fact first surprised him, then angered him, then depressed him, and
at last, frightened him.

“God knows, God knows how it will all end!” he cried; first trying to
settle himself on a sofa, and then marching up and down the room, and all
the while looking at his watch every other minute.

At length—at about nine o’clock—Pavel Pavlovitch appeared.

“If this man was cunning enough to mean it he could not have managed
better in order to put me into a state of nervousness!” thought
Velchaninoff, though his heart bounded for joy to see his guest arrive.

To Velchaninoff’s cordial inquiry as to why he was so late, Pavel
Pavlovitch smiled disagreeably—took a seat with easy familiarity,
carelessly threw his crapebound hat on a chair,—and made himself perfectly
at home. Velchaninoff observed and took stock of the careless manner
adopted by his visitor; it was not like yesterday. Velchaninoff then
quietly, and in a few words, gave Pavel Pavlovitch an account of what he
had done with Liza, of how kindly she had been received, of how good it
would be for the child down there; then he led the conversation to the
topic of the Pogoryeltseffs, leaving Liza out of the talking altogether,
and spoke of how kind the whole family were, of how long he had known
them, and so on.

Pavel Pavlovitch listened absently, occasionally looking ironically at his
host from under his eyelashes.

“What an enthusiast you are!” he muttered at last, smiling very
unpleasantly.

“Hum, you seem in a bad humour to-day!” remarked Velchaninoff with
annoyance.

“And why shouldn’t I be as wicked as my neighbours?” cried Pavel
Pavlovitch suddenly! He said this so abruptly that he gave one the idea
that he had pounced out of a corner where he had been lurking, on purpose
to make a dash at the first opportunity.

“Oh dear me! do as you like, pray!” laughed Velchaninoff; “I only thought
something had put you out, perhaps!”

“So it has,” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, as though proud of the fact.

“Well, what was it?”

Pavel Pavlovitch waited a moment or two before he replied.

“Why it’s that Stepan Michailovitch Bagantoff of ours—up to his tricks
again; he’s a shining light among the highest circles of society—he is!”

“Wouldn’t he receive you again—or what?”

“N—no! not quite that, this time; on the contrary I was allowed to go in
for the first time on record, and I had the honour of musing over his
features, too!—but he happened to be a corpse, that’s all!”

“What! Bagantoff dead?” cried Velchaninoff, in the greatest astonishment;
though there was no particular reason why he _should_ be surprised.

“Yes—my unalterable—six-years-standing friend is dead!—died yesterday at
about mid-day, and I knew nothing of it! Perhaps he died just when I
called there—who knows? To-morrow is the funeral! he’s in his coffin at
this moment! Died of nervous fever; and they let me in to see him—they did
indeed!—to contemplate his features! I told them I was a great friend—and
therefore they allowed me in! A pretty trick he has played me—this dear
friend of six years’ standing! why—perhaps I came to St. Petersburg
_specially for him_!”

“Well—it’s hardly worth your while to be angry with him about it, is it—he
didn’t die on purpose!” said Velchaninoff laughing.

“Oh, but I’m speaking out of pure sympathy—he was a _dear_ friend to me!
oh a _very_ dear friend!”

Pavel Pavlovitch gave a smile of detestable irony and cunning.

“Do you know what, Alexey Ivanovitch,” he resumed, “I think you ought to
treat me to something,—I have often treated you; I used to be your host
every blessed day, sir, at T——, for a whole year! Send for a bottle of
wine, do—my throat is so dry!”

“With pleasure—why didn’t you say so before! what would you like?”

“Don’t say ‘you!’ say ‘we’! we’ll drink together of course!” said Pavel
Pavlovitch defiantly, but at the same time looking into Velchaninoff’s
eyes with some concern.

“Shall it be champagne?”

“Of course! it isn’t time for vodki yet!”

Velchaninoff rose slowly—rang the bell and gave Mavra the necessary
orders.

“We’ll drink to this happy meeting of friends after nine years’ parting!”
said Pavel Pavlovitch, with a very inappropriate and unnecessary giggle.
“Why, you are the only real, true friend left to me now! Bagantoff is no
more! it quite reminds one of the great poet:

“Great Patroclus is no more,
Mean Thersites liveth yet!”

—and so on,—don’t you know!”

At the name “Thersites” Pavel Pavlovitch touched his own breast.

“I wish you would speak plainly, you pig of a fellow!” said Velchaninoff
to himself, “I hate hints!” His own anger was on the rise, and he had long
been struggling with his self-restraint.

“Look here,—tell me this, since you consider Bagantoff to have been guilty
before you (as I see you do) surely you must be glad that your betrayer is
dead? What are you so angry about?”

“Glad! Why should I be glad?”

“I judge by what I should imagine your feelings to be.”

“Ha-ha! well, this time you are a little bit in error as to my feelings,
for once! A certain sage has said ’my good enemy is dead, but I have a
still better one alive! ha-ha!”

“Well but you saw him alive for five years at a stretch,—I should have
thought that was enough to contemplate his features in!” said Velchaninoff
angrily and contemptuously.

“Yes, but how was I to know then, sir?” snapped Pavel Pavlovitch—jumping
out of an ambush once more, as it were,—delighted to be asked a question
which he had long awaited; “why, what do you take me for, Alexey
Ivanovitch?” at this moment there was in the speaker’s face a new
expression altogether, transfiguring entirely the hitherto merely
disagreeably malicious look upon it.

“Do you mean to say you knew nothing of it?” said Velchaninoff in
astonishment.

“How! Didn’t know? As if I could have known it and——Oh, you race of
Jupiters! you reckon a man to be no better than a dog, and judge of him by
your own sentiments. Look here, sir,—there, look at that.” So saying, he
brought his fist madly down upon the table with a resounding bang, and
immediately afterwards looked frightened at his own act.

Velchaninoff’s face beamed.

“Listen, Pavel Pavlovitch,” he said; “it is entirely the same thing to me
whether you knew or did not know all about it. If you did not know, so
much the more honourable is it for you; but—I can’t understand why you
should have selected me for your confidant.”

“I wasn’t talking of you; don’t be angry, it wasn’t about you,” muttered
Pavel Pavlovitch, with his eyes fixed on the ground.

At this moment, Mavra entered with the champagne.

“Here it is!” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, immensely delighted at the
appearance of the wine. “Now then, tumblers my good girl, tumblers quick!
Capital! Thank you, we don’t require you any more, my good Mavra. What!
you’ve drawn the cork? Excellent creature. Well, ta-ta! off with you.”

Mavra’s advent with the bottle so encouraged him that he again looked at
Velchaninoff with some defiance.

“Now confess,” he giggled suddenly, “confess that you are very curious
indeed to hear about all this, and that it is by no means ‘entirely the
same to you,’ as you declared! Confess that you would be miserable if I
were to get up and go away this very minute without telling you anything
more.”

“Not the least in the world, I assure you!”

Pavel Pavlovitch smiled; and his smile said, as plainly as words could,
“That’s a lie!”

“Well, let’s to business,” he said, and poured out two glasses of
champagne.

“Here’s a toast,” he continued, raising his goblet, “to the health in
Paradise of our dear departed friend Bagantoff.”

He raised his glass and drank.

“I won’t drink such a toast as that!” said Velchaninoff; and put his glass
down on the table.

“Why not? It’s a very pretty toast.”

“Look here, were you drunk when you came here?”

“A little; why?”

“Oh—nothing particular. Only it appeared to me that yesterday, and
especially this morning, you were sincerely sorry for the loss of Natalia
Vasilievna.”

“And who says I am not sorry now?” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, as if somebody
had pulled a string and made him snap the words out, like a doll.

“No, I don’t mean that; but you must admit you may be in error about
Bagantoff; and that’s a serious matter!”

Pavel Pavlovitch grinned and gave a wink.

“Hey! Wouldn’t you just like to know how I found out about Bagantoff, eh?”

Velchaninoff blushed.

“I repeat, it’s all the same to me,” he said; and added to himself,
“Hadn’t I better pitch him and the bottle out of the window together.” He
was blushing more and more now.

Pavel Pavlovitch poured himself out another glass.

“I’ll tell you directly how I found out all about Mr. Bagantoff, and your
burning wish shall be satisfied. For you are a fiery sort of man, you
know, Alexey Ivanovitch, oh, dreadfully so! Ha-ha-ha. Just give me a
cigarette first, will you, for ever since March——”

“Here’s a cigarette for you.”

“Ever since March I have been a depraved man, sir, and this is how it all
came about. Listen. Consumption, as you know, my dear friend” (Pavel
Pavlovitch was growing more and more familiar!), “is an interesting
malady. One sees a man dying of consumption without a suspicion that
to-morrow is to be his last day. Well, I told you how Natalia Vasilievna,
up to five hours before her death, talked about going to visit her aunt,
who lived thirty miles or so away, and starting in a fortnight. You know
how some ladies—and gentlemen, too, I daresay—have the bad habit of
keeping a lot of old rubbish by them, in the way of love-letters and so
on. It would be much safer to stick them all into the fire, wouldn’t it?
But no, they must keep every little scrap of paper in drawers and desks,
and endorse it and classify it, and tie it up in bundles, for each year
and month and class! I don’t know whether they find this consoling to
their feelings afterwards, or what. Well, since she was arranging a visit
to her aunt just five hours before her death, Natalia Vasilievna naturally
did not expect to die so soon; in fact, she was expecting old Doctor Koch
down till the last; and so, when Natalia Vasilievna _did_ die, she left
behind her a beautiful little black desk all inlaid with mother-of-pearl,
and bound with silver, in her bureau; oh, a lovely little box, an heirloom
left her by her grandmother, with a lock and key all complete. Well, sir,
in this box everything—I mean _everything_, you know, for every day and
hour for the last twenty years—was disclosed; and since Mr. Bagantoff had
a decided taste for literature (indeed, he had published a passionate
novel once, I am told, in a newspaper!)—consequently there were about a
hundred examples of his genius in the desk, ranging over a period of five
years. Some of these talented effusions were covered with pencilled
remarks by Natalia Vasilievna herself! Pleasant, that, for a fond
husband’s feelings, sir, eh?”

Velchaninoff quickly cast his thoughts back over the past, and remembered
that he had never written a single letter or a single note to Natalia
Vasilievna.

He had written a couple of letters from St. Petersburg, but, according to
a previous arrangement, he had addressed them to both Mr. and Mrs.
Trusotsky together. He had not answered Natalia Vasilievna’s last
letter—which had contained his dismissal—at all.

Having ended his speech, Pavel Pavlovitch relapsed into silence, and sat
smiling repulsively for a whole minute or so.

“Why don’t you answer my question, my friend?” he asked, at length,
evidently disturbed by Velchaninoff’s silence.

“What question?”

“As to the pleasure I must have felt as a fond husband, upon opening the
desk.”

“Your feelings are no business of mine!” said the other bitterly, rising
and commencing to stride up and down the room.

“I wouldn’t mind betting that you are thinking at this very moment: ‘What
a pig of a fellow he is to parade his shame like this!’ Ha-ha! dear me,
what a squeamish gentleman you are to be sure!”

“Not at all. I was thinking nothing of the sort; on the contrary, I
consider that you are—besides being more or less intoxicated—so put out by
the death of the man who has injured you that you are not yourself.
There’s nothing surprising in it at all! I quite understand why you wish
Bagantoff were still alive, and am ready to respect your annoyance, but——”

“And pray _why_ do you suppose that I wish Bagantoff were alive?”

“Oh, that’s your affair!”

“I’ll take my oath you are thinking of a duel!”

“Devil take it, sir!” cried Velchaninoff, obliged to hold himself tighter
than ever. “I was thinking that you, like every respectable person in
similar circumstances, would act openly and candidly and
straightforwardly, and not humiliate yourself with comical antics and
silly grimaces, and ridiculous complaints and detestable innuendoes, which
only heap greater shame upon you. I say I was thinking you would act like
a respectable person.”

“Ha-ha-ha!—but perhaps I am _not_ a respectable person!”

“Oh, well, that’s your own affair again and yet, if so, what in the
devil’s name could you want with Bagantoff alive?”

“Oh, my dear sir, I should have liked just to have a nice peep at a dear
old friend, that’s all. We should have got hold of a bottle of wine, and
drunk it together!”

“He wouldn’t have drunk with _you_!”

“Why not? _Noblesse oblige?_ Why, _you_ are drinking with me. Wherein is
he better than you?”

“I have not drunk with you.”

“Wherefore this sudden pride, sir?”

Velchaninoff suddenly burst into a fit of nervous, irritable laughter.

“Why, deuce take it all!” he cried, “you are quite a different type to
what I believed. I thought you were nothing but a ‘permanent husband,’ but
I find you are a sort of bird of prey.”

“What! ‘permanent husband?’ What is a ‘permanent husband?’ ” asked Pavel
Pavlovitch, pricking up his ears.

“Oh—just one type of husbands—that’s all, it’s too long to explain. Come,
you’d better get out now; it’s quite time you went. I’m sick of you!”

“And bird of prey, sir; what did that mean?”

“I said you were a bird of prey for a joke.”

“Yes; but—bird of prey—tell me what you mean, Alexey Ivanovitch, for
goodness sake!”

“Come, come, that’s quite enough!” shouted Velchaninoff, suddenly flaring
up and speaking at the top of his voice. “It’s time you went; get out of
this, will you?”

“No, sir, it’s _not_ enough!” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, jumping up, too.
“Even if you _are_ sick of me, sir, it’s not enough; for you must first
drink and clink glasses with me. I won’t go before you do! No, no; oh dear
no! drink first; it’s _not_ enough yet.”

“Pavel Pavlovitch, will you go to the devil or will you not?”

“With pleasure, sir. I’ll go to the devil with pleasure; but first we must
drink. You say you don’t wish to drink _with me_; but _I wish you_ to
drink with me—actually _with me_.”

Pavel Pavlovitch was grimacing and giggling no longer. He seemed to be
suddenly transfigured again, and was as different from the Pavel
Pavlovitch of but a few moments since as he could possibly be, both in
appearance and in the tone of his voice; so much so that Velchaninoff was
absolutely confounded.

“Come, Alexey Ivanovitch, let’s drink!—don’t refuse me!” continued Pavel
Pavlovitch, seizing the other tightly by the hand and gazing into his face
with an extraordinary expression.

It was clear there was more in this matter than the mere question of
drinking a glass of wine.

“Well,” muttered Velchaninoff, “but that’s nothing but dregs!”

“No, there’s just a couple of glasses left—it’s quite clear. Now then,
clink glasses and drink. There, I’ll take your glass and you take mine.”
They touched glasses and drank.

“Oh, Alexey Ivanovitch! now that we’ve drunk together—oh!” Pavel
Pavlovitch suddenly raised his hand to his forehead and sat still for a
few moments.

Velchaninoff trembled with excitement. He thought Pavel Pavlovitch was
about to disclose _all_; but Pavel Pavlovitch said nothing whatever. He
only looked at him, and quietly smiled his detestable cunning smile in the
other’s face.

“What do you want with me, you drunken wretch?” cried Velchaninoff,
furious, and stamping his foot upon the floor; “you are making a fool of
me!”

“Don’t shout so—don’t shout! Why make such a noise?” cried Pavel
Pavlovitch. “I’m not making a fool of you! Do you know what you are to me
now?” and he suddenly seized Velchaninoff’s hand, and kissed it before
Velchaninoff could recollect himself.

“There, that’s what you are to me _now_; and now I’ll go to the devil.”

“Wait a bit—stop!” cried Velchaninoff, recollecting himself; “there’s
something I wished to say to you.”

Pavel Pavlovitch turned back from the door.

“You see,” began Velchaninoff, blushing and keeping his eye well away from
the other, “you ought to go with me to the Pogoryeltseffs to-morrow—just
to thank them, you know, and make their acquaintance.”

“Of course, of course; quite so!” said Pavel Pavlovitch readily, and
making a gesture of the hand to imply that he knew his duty, and there was
no need to remind him of it.

“Besides Liza expects you anxiously—I promised her.”

“Liza?” Pavel Pavlovitch turned quickly once more upon him. “Liza? Do you
know, sir, what this Liza has been to me—has been and is?” he cried
passionately and almost beside himself; “but—no!—afterwards—that shall be
afterwards! Meanwhile it’s not enough for me, Alexey Ivanovitch, that we
have drunk together; there’s another satisfaction I must have, sir!” He
placed his hat on a chair, and, panting with excitement, gazed at his
companion with much the same expression as before.

“Kiss me, Alexey Ivanovitch!”

“Are you drunk?” cried the other, drawing back.

“Yes, I am—but kiss me all the same, Alexey Ivanovitch—oh, do! I kissed
your hand just now, you know.”

Alexey Ivanovitch was silent for a few moments, as though stunned by the
blow of a cudgel. Then he quickly bent down to Pavel Pavlovitch (who was
about the height of his shoulder), and kissed his lips, from which
proceeded a disagreeably powerful odour of wine. He performed the action
as though not quite certain of what he was doing.

“Well! _now, now!_” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, with drunken enthusiasm, and
with his eyes flashing fiercely; “_now_—look here—I’ll tell you what! I
thought at that time: ‘Surely not _he_, too! If _this_ man,’ I thought,
‘if _this_ man is guilty too—then whom am I ever to trust again!’ ”

Pavel Pavlovitch suddenly burst into tears.

“So now you must understand _how_ dear a friend you are to me henceforth.”
With these words he took his hat and rushed out of the room.

Velchaninoff stood for several minutes in one spot, just as he had done
after Pavel Pavlovitch’s first visit.

“It’s merely a drunken sally—nothing more!” he muttered. “Absolutely
nothing further!” he repeated, when he was undressed and settled down in
his bed.

CHAPTER VIII.

Next morning, while waiting for Pavel Pavlovitch, who had promised to be
in good time in order to drive down to the Pogoryeltseffs with him,
Velchaninoff walked up and down the room, sipped his coffee, and every
other minute reflected upon one and the same idea; namely, that he felt
like a man who had awaked from sleep with the deep impression of having
received a box on the ear the last thing at night.

“Hm!” he thought, anxiously, “he understands the state of the case only
too well; he’ll take it out of me by means of Liza!” The dear image of the
poor little girl danced before his eyes. His heart beat quicker when he
reflected that to-day—in a couple of hours—he would see _his own_ Liza
once more. “Yes—there’s no question about it,” he said to himself; “my
whole end and aim in life is _there_ now! What do I care about all these
‘memories’ and boxes on the ear; and what have I lived for up to now?—for
sorrow and discomfort—that’s all! but _now_, now—it’s all different!”

But in spite of his ecstatic feelings he grew more and more thoughtful.

“He is worrying me for Liza, that’s plain; and he bullies Liza—he is going
to take it out of me that way—for _all_! Hm! at all events I cannot
possibly allow such sallies as his of last night,” and Velchaninoff
blushed hotly “and here’s half-past eleven and he hasn’t come yet.” He
waited long—till half-past twelve, and his anguish of impatience grew more
and more keen. Pavel Pavlovitch did not appear. At length the idea began
to take shape that Pavel Pavlovitch naturally would not come again for the
sole purpose of another scene like that of last night. The thought filled
Velchaninoff with despair. “The brute knows I am depending upon him—and
what on earth am I to do now about Liza? How can I make my appearance
without him?”

At last he could bear it no longer and set off to the Pokrofsky at one
o’clock to look for Pavel Pavlovitch.

At the lodging, Velchaninoff was informed that Pavel Pavlovitch had not
been at home all night, and had only called in at nine o’clock, stayed a
quarter of an hour, and had gone out again.

Velchaninoff stood at the door listening to the servants’ report,
mechanically tried the handle, recollected himself, and asked to see Maria
Sisevna.

The latter obeyed his summons at once.

She was a kind-hearted old creature, of generous feelings, as Velchaninoff
described her afterwards to Claudia Petrovna. Having first enquired as to
his journey yesterday with Liza, Maria launched into anecdotes of Pavel
Pavlovitch. She declared that she would long ago have turned her lodger
out neck and crop, but for the child. Pavel Pavlovitch had been turned out
of the hotel for generally disreputable behaviour. “Oh, he does dreadful
things!” she continued. “Fancy his telling the poor child, in anger, that
she wasn’t his daughter, but——”

“Oh no, no! impossible!” cried Velchaninoff in alarm.

“I heard it myself! She’s only a small child, of course, but that sort of
thing doesn’t do before an intelligent child like her! She cried
dreadfully—she was quite upset. We had a catastrophe in the house a short
while since. Some commissionnaire or somebody took a room in the evening,
and hung himself before morning. He had bolted with money, they say. Well,
crowds of people came in to stare at him. Pavel Pavlovitch wasn’t at home,
but the child had escaped and was wandering about; and she must needs go
with the rest to see the sight. I saw her looking at the suicide with an
extraordinary expression, and carried her off at once, of course; and
fancy, I hardly managed to get home with her—trembling all over she
was—when off she goes in a dead faint, and it was all I could do to bring
her round at all. I don’t know whether she’s epileptic or what—and ever
since that she has been ill. When her father heard, he came and pinched
her all over—he doesn’t beat her; he always pinches her like that,—then he
went out and got drunk somewhere, and came back and frightened her. ‘I’m
going to hang myself too,’ he says, ‘because of you. I shall hang myself
on that blind string there,’ he says, and he makes a loop in the string
before her very eyes. The poor little thing went quite out of her mind
with terror, and cried and clasped him round with her little arms. ‘I’ll
be good—I’ll be good!’ she shrieks. It was a pitiful sight—it was,
indeed!”

Velchaninoff, though prepared for strange revelations concerning Pavel
Pavlovitch and his ways, was quite dumbfounded by these tales; he could
scarcely believe his ears.

Maria Sisevna told him many more such little anecdotes. Among others,
there was one occasion, when, if she (Maria) had not been by, Liza would
have thrown herself out of the window.

Pavel Pavlovitch had come staggering out of the room muttering, “I shall
smash her head in with a stick! I shall murder her like a dog!” and he had
gone away, repeating this over and over again to himself.

Velchaninoff hired a carriage and set off towards the Pogoryeltseffs.
Before he had left the town behind him, the carriage was delayed by a
block at a cross road, just by a small bridge, over which was passing, at
the moment, a long funeral procession. There were carriages waiting to
move on on both sides of the bridge, and a considerable crowd of foot
passengers besides.

The funeral was evidently of some person of considerable importance, for
the train of private and hired vehicles was a very long one; and at the
window of one of these carriages in the procession Velchaninoff suddenly
beheld the face of Pavel Pavlovitch.

Velchaninoff would not have believed his eyes, but that Pavel Pavlovitch
nodded his head and smiled to him. He seemed to be delighted to have
recognised Velchaninoff; he even began to kiss his hand out of the window.

Velchaninoff jumped out of his own vehicle, and in spite of policemen,
crowd, and everything else, elbowed his way to Pavel Pavlovitch’s carriage
window. He found the latter sitting alone.

“What are you doing?” he cried. “Why didn’t you come to my house? Why are
you here?”

“I’m paying a debt; don’t shout so! I’m repaying a debt,” said Pavel
Pavlovitch, giggling and winking. “I’m escorting the mortal remains of my
dear friend Stepan Michailovitch Bagantoff!”

“What absurdity, you drunken, insane creature,” cried Velchaninoff louder
than ever, and beside himself with outraged feeling. “Get out and come
with me. Quick! get out instantly!”

“I can’t. It’s a debt——”

“I’ll pull you out, then!” shouted Velchaninoff.

“Then I’ll scream, sir, I’ll scream!” giggled Pavel Pavlovitch, as merrily
as ever, just as though the whole thing was a joke. However, he retreated
into the further corner of the carriage, all the same.

“Look out, sir, look out! You’ll be knocked down!” cried a policeman.

Sure enough, an outside carriage was making its way on to the bridge from
the side, stopping the procession, and causing a commotion. Velchaninoff
was obliged to spring aside, and the press of carriages and people
immediately separated him from Pavel Pavlovitch. He shrugged his shoulders
and returned to his own vehicle.

“It’s all the same. I couldn’t take such a fellow with me, anyhow,” he
reflected, still all of a tremble with excitement and the rage of disgust.
When he repeated Maria Sisevna’s story, and his meeting at the funeral, to
Claudia Petrovna afterwards, the latter became buried in deep thought.

“I am anxious for you,” she said at last. “You must break off all
relations with that man, and as soon as possible.”

“Oh, he’s nothing but a drunken fool!” cried Velchaninoff passionately;
“as if I am to be afraid of _him_! And how can I break off relations with
him? Remember Liza!”

Meanwhile Liza was lying ill; fever had set in last night, and an eminent
doctor was momentarily expected from town! He had been sent for early this
morning.

These news quite upset Velchaninoff. Claudia Petrovna took him in to see
the patient.

“I observed her very carefully yesterday,” she said, stopping at the door
of Liza’s room before entering it. “She is a proud and morose child. She
is ashamed of being with us, and of having been thrown over by her father.
In my opinion that is the whole secret of her illness.”

“How ‘thrown over’? Why do you suppose that he has thrown her over?”

“The simple fact that he allowed her to come here to a strange house, and
with a man who was also a stranger, or nearly so; or, at all events, with
whom his relations were such that——”

“Oh, but I took her myself, almost by force.”

Liza was not surprised to see Velchaninoff alone. She only smiled
bitterly, and turned her hot face to the wall. She made no reply to his
passionate promises to bring her father down to-morrow without fail, or to
his timid attempts at consolation.

As soon as Velchaninoff left the sick child’s presence, he burst into
tears.

The doctor did not arrive until evening. On seeing the patient he
frightened everybody by his very first remark, observing that it was a
pity he had not been sent for before.

When informed that the child had only been taken ill last night, he could
not believe it at first.

“Well, it all depends upon how this night is passed,” he decided at last.

Having made all necessary arrangements, he took his departure, promising
to come as early as possible next morning.

Velchaninoff was anxious to stay the night, but Claudia Petrovna begged
him to try once more “to bring down that brute of a man.”

“Try once more!” cried Velchaninoff, passionately; “why, I’ll tie him hand
and foot and bring him along myself!”

The idea that he would tie Pavel Pavlovitch up and carry him down in his
arms overpowered Velchaninoff, and filled him with impatience to execute
his frantic desire.

“I don’t feel the slightest bit guilty before him any more,” he said to
Claudia Petrovna, at parting, “and I withdraw all my servile, abject words
of yesterday—all I said to you,” he added, wrathfully.

Liza lay with closed eyes, apparently asleep; she seemed to be better.
When Velchaninoff bent cautiously over her in order to kiss—if it were but
the edge of her bed linen—she suddenly opened her eyes, just as though she
had been waiting for him, and whispered, “Take me away!”

It was but a quiet, sad petition—without a trace of yesterday’s
irritation; but at the same time there was that in her voice which
betrayed that she made the request in the full knowledge that it could not
be assented to.

No sooner did Velchaninoff, in despair, begin to assure her as tenderly as
he could that what she desired was impossible, than she silently closed
her eyes and said not another word, just as though she neither saw nor
heard him.

Arrived in town Velchaninoff told his man to drive him to the Pokrofsky.
It was ten o’clock at night.

Pavel Pavlovitch was not at his lodgings. Velchaninoff waited for him half
an hour, walking up and down the passage in a state of feverish
impatience. Maria Sisevna assured him at last that Pavel Pavlovitch would
not come in until the small hours.

“Well, then, I’ll return here before daylight,” he said, beside himself
with desperation, and he went home to his own rooms.

What was his amazement, when, on arriving at the gate of his house, he
learned from Mavra that “yesterday’s visitor” had been waiting for him
ever since before ten o’clock.

“He’s had some tea,” she added, “and sent me for wine again—the same wine
as yesterday. He gave me the money to buy it with.”

CHAPTER IX.

Pavel Pavlovitch had made himself very comfortable. He was sitting in the
same chair as he had occupied yesterday, smoking a cigar, and had just
poured the fourth and last tumbler of champagne out of the bottle.

The teapot and a half-emptied tumbler of tea stood on the table beside
him; his red face beamed with benevolence. He had taken off his coat, and
sat in his shirt sleeves.

“Forgive me, dearest of friends,” he cried, catching sight of
Velchaninoff, and hastening to put on his coat, “I took it off to make
myself thoroughly comfortable.”

Velchaninoff approached him menacingly.

“You are not quite tipsy yet, are you? Can you understand what is said to
you?”

Paul Pavlovitch became a little confused.

“No, not quite. I’ve been thinking of the dear deceased a bit, but I’m not
quite drunk yet.”

“Can you understand what I say?”

“My dear sir, I came here on purpose to understand you.”

“Very well, then I shall begin at once by telling you that you are an ass,
sir!” cried Velchaninoff, at the top of his voice.

“Why, if you begin that way where will you end, I wonder!” said Pavel
Pavlovitch, clearly alarmed more than a little.

Velchaninoff did not listen, but roared again,

“Your daughter is dying—she is very ill! Have you thrown her over
altogether, or not?”

“Oh, surely she isn’t dying yet?”

“I tell you she’s ill; very, very ill—dangerously ill.”

“What, fits? or——”

“Don’t talk nonsense. I tell you she is very dangerously ill. You ought to
go down, if only for that reason.”

“What, to thank your friends, eh? to return thanks for their hospitality?
Of course, quite so; I well understand, Alexey Ivanovitch—dearest of
friends!” He suddenly seized Velchaninoff by both hands, and added with
intoxicated sentiment, almost melted to tears, “Alexey Ivanovitch, don’t
shout at me—don’t shout at me, please! If you do, I may throw myself into
the Neva—I don’t know!—and we have such important things to talk over.
There’s lots of time to go to the Pogoryeltseffs another day.”

Velchaninoff did his best to restrain his wrath. “You are drunk, and
therefore I don’t understand what you are driving at,” he said sternly.
“I’m ready to come to an explanation with you at any moment you
like—delighted!—the the sooner the better. But first let me tell you that
I am going to take my own measures to secure you. You will sleep here
to-night, and to-morrow I shall take you with me to see Liza. I shall not
let you go again. I shall bind you, if necessary, and carry you down
myself. How do you like this sofa to sleep on?” he added, panting, and
indicating a wide, soft divan opposite his own sofa, against the other
wall.

“Oh—anything will do for me!”

“Very well, you shall have this sofa. Here, take these things—here are
sheets, blankets, pillow” (Velchaninoff pulled all these things out of a
cupboard, and tossed them impatiently to Pavel Pavlovitch, who humbly
stood and received them); “now then, make your bed,—come, bustle up!”

Pavel Pavlovitch laden with bed clothes had been standing in the middle of
the room with a stupid drunken leer on his face, irresolute; but at
Velchaninoff’s second bidding he hurriedly began the task of making his
bed, moving the table away from in front of it, and smoothing a sheet over
the seat of the divan. Velchaninoff approached to help him. He was more or
less gratified with his guest’s alarm and submission.

“Now, drink up that wine and lie down!” was his next command. He felt that
he _must_ order this man about, he could not help himself. “I suppose you
took upon yourself to order this wine, did you?”

“I did—I did, sir! I sent for the wine, Alexey Ivanovitch, because I knew
_you_ would not send out again!”

“Well, it’s a good thing that you knew that; but I desire that you should
know still more. I give you notice that I have taken my own measures for
the future, I’m not going to put up with any more of your antics.”

“Oh, I quite understand, Alexey Ivanovitch, that that sort of thing could
only happen once!” said Pavel Pavlovitch, giggling feebly.

At this reply Velchaninoff, who had been marching up and down the room
stopped solemnly before Pavel Pavlovitch.

“Pavel Pavlovitch,” he said, “speak plainly! You are a clever fellow—I
admit the fact freely,—but I assure you you are going on a false track
now. Speak plainly, and act like an honest man, and I give you my word of
honour that I will answer all you wish to know.”

Pavel Pavlovitch grinned his disagreeable grin (which always drove
Velchaninoff wild) once more.

“Wait!” cried the latter. “No humbug now, please; I see through you. I
repeat that I give you my word of honour to reply candidly to anything you
may like to ask, and to give you every sort of satisfaction—reasonable or
even unreasonable—that you please. _Oh!_ how I wish I could make you
understand me!”

“Since you are so very kind,” began Pavel Pavlovitch, cautiously bending
towards him, “I may tell you that I am very much interested as to what you
said yesterday about ‘bird of prey’?”

Velchaninoff spat on the ground in utter despair and disgust, and
recommenced his walk up and down the room, quicker than ever.

“No, no, Alexey Ivanovitch, don’t spurn my question; you don’t know how
interested I am in it. I assure you I came here on purpose to ask you
about it. I know I’m speaking indistinctly, but you’ll forgive me that.
I’ve read the expression before. Tell me now, was Bagantoff a ‘bird of
prey,’ or—the other thing? How is one to distinguish one from the other?”

Velchaninoff went on walking up and down, and answered nothing for some
minutes.

“The bird of prey, sir,” he began suddenly, stopping in front of Pavel
Pavlovitch, and speaking vehemently, “is the man who would poison
Bagantoff while drinking champagne with him under the cloak of
goodfellowship, as you did with me yesterday, instead of escorting his
wretched body to the burial ground as you did—the deuce only knows why,
and with what dirty, mean, underhand, petty motives, which only recoil
upon yourself and make you viler than you already are. Yes, sir, recoil
upon yourself!”

“Quite so, quite so, I oughtn’t to have gone,” assented Pavel Pavlovitch,
“but aren’t you a little——”

“The bird of prey is not a man who goes and learns his grievance off by
heart, like a lesson, and whines it about the place, grimacing and posing,
and hanging it round other people’s necks, and who spends all his time in
such pettifogging. Is it true you wanted to hang yourself? Come, is it
true, or not?”

“I—I don’t know—I may have when I was drunk—I don’t remember. You see,
Alexey Ivanovitch, it wouldn’t be quite nice for me to go poisoning
people. I’m too high up in the service, and I have money, too, you
know—and I may wish to marry again, who knows.”

“Yes; you’d be sent to Siberia, which would be awkward.”

“Quite so; though they say the penal servitude is not so bad as it was.
But you remind me of an anecdote, Alexey Ivanovitch. I thought of it in
the carriage, and meant to tell you afterwards. Well! you may remember
Liftsoff at T——. He came while you were there. His younger brother—who is
rather a swell, too—was serving at L—— under the governor, and one fine
day he happened to quarrel with Colonel Golubenko in the presence of
ladies, and of one lady especially. Liftsoff considered himself insulted,
but concealed his grievance; and, meanwhile, Golubenko proposed to a
certain lady and was accepted. Would you believe it, Liftsoff made great
friends with Golubenko, and even volunteered to be best man at his
wedding. But when the ceremony was all over, and Liftsoff approached the
bridegroom to wish him joy and kiss him, as usual, he took the opportunity
of sticking a knife into Golubenko. Fancy! his own best man stuck him!
Well, what does the assassin do but run about the room crying. ‘Oh! what
have I done? Oh! what have I done?’ says he, and throws himself on
everyone’s neck by turns, ladies and all! Ha-ha-ha! He starved to death in
Siberia, sir! One is a little sorry for Golubenko; but he recovered, after
all.”

“I don’t understand why you told me that story,” said Velchaninoff,
frowning heavily.

“Why, because he stuck the other fellow with a knife,” giggled Pavel
Pavlovitch, “which proves that he was no type, but an ass of a fellow, who
could so forget the ordinary manners of society as to hang around ladies’
necks, and in the presence of the governor, too—and yet he stuck the other
fellow. Ha-ha-ha! He did what he intended to do, that’s all, sir!”

“Go to the devil, will you—you and your miserable humbug—you miserable
humbug yourself,” yelled Velchaninoff, wild with rage and fury, and
panting so that he could hardly get his words out. “You think you are
going to alarm _me_, do you, you frightener of children—you mean beast—you
low scoundrel you?—scoundrel—scoundrel—scoundrel!” He had quite forgotten
himself in his rage.

Pavel Pavlovitch shuddered all over; his drunkenness seemed to vanish in
an instant; his lips trembled and shook.

“Are you calling _me_ a scoundrel, Alexey Ivanovitch—_you_—_me_?”

But Velchaninoff was himself again now.

“I’ll apologise if you like,” he said, and relapsed into gloomy silence.
After a moment he added, “But only on condition that you yourself agree to
speak out fully, and at once.”

“In your place I should apologise unconditionally, Alexey Ivanovitch.”

“Very well; so be it then.” Velchaninoff was silent again for a while. “I
apologise,” he resumed; “but admit yourself, Pavel Pavlovitch, that I need
not feel myself in any way bound to you after this. I mean with regard to
_anything_—not only this particular matter.”

“All right! Why, what is there to settle between us?” laughed Pavel
Pavlovitch, without looking up.

“In that case, so much the better—so much the better. Come, drink up your
wine and get into bed, for I shall not let you go now, anyhow.”

“Oh, my wine—never mind my wine!” muttered Pavel Pavlovitch; but he went
to the table all the same, and took up his tumbler of champagne which had
long been poured out. Either he had been drinking copiously before, or
there was some other unknown cause at work, but his hand shook so as he
drank the wine that a quantity of it was spilled over his waistcoat and
the floor. However, he drank it all, to the last drop, as though he could
not leave the tumbler without emptying it. He then placed the empty glass
on the table, approached his bed, sat down on it, and began to undress.

“I think perhaps I had better _not_ sleep here,” he said suddenly, with
one boot off, and half undressed.

“Well, I _don’t_ think so,” said Velchaninoff, who was walking up and
down, without looking at him.

Pavel Pavlovitch finished undressing and lay down. A quarter of an hour
later Velchaninoff also got into bed, and put the candle out.

He soon began to doze uncomfortably. Some new trouble seemed to have
suddenly come over him and worried him, and at the same time he felt a
sensation of shame that he could allow himself to be worried by the new
trouble. Velchaninoff was just falling definitely asleep, however, when a
rustling sound awoke him. He immediately glanced at Pavel Pavlovitch’s
bed. The room was quite dark, the blinds being down and curtains drawn;
but it seemed to him that Pavel Pavlovitch was not lying in his bed; he
seemed to be sitting on the side of it.

“What’s the matter?” cried Velchaninoff.

“A ghost, sir,” said Pavel Pavlovitch, in a low tone, after a few moments
of silence.

“What? What sort of a ghost?”

“Th—there—in that room—just at the door, I seemed to see a ghost!”

“Whose ghost?” asked Velchaninoff, pausing a minute before putting the
question.

“Natalia Vasilievna’s!”

Velchaninoff jumped out of bed and walked to the door, whence he could see
into the room opposite, across the passage. There were no curtains in that
room, so that it was much lighter than his own.

“There’s nothing there at all. You are drunk; lie down again!” he said,
and himself set the example, rolling his blanket around him.

Pavel Pavlovitch said nothing, but lay down as he was told.

“Did you ever see any ghosts before?” asked Velchaninoff suddenly, ten
minutes later.

“I think I saw one once,” said Pavel Pavlovitch in the same low voice;
after which there was silence once more. Velchaninoff was not sure whether
he had been asleep or not, but an hour or so had passed, when suddenly he
was wide awake again. Was it a rustle that awoke him? He could not tell;
but one thing was evident—in the midst of the profound darkness of the
room something white stood before him; not quite close to him, but about
the middle of the room. He sat up in bed, and stared for a full minute.

“Is that you, Pavel Pavlovitch?” he asked. His voice sounded very weak.

There was no reply; but there was not the slightest doubt of the fact that
someone was standing there.

“Is that you, Pavel Pavlovitch?” cried Velchaninoff again, louder this
time; in fact, so loud that if the former had been asleep in bed he must
have started up and answered.

But there was no reply again. It seemed to Velchaninoff that the white
figure had approached nearer to him.

Then something strange happened; something seemed to “let go” within
Velchaninoff’s system, and he commenced to shout at the top of his voice,
just as he had done once before this evening, in the wildest and maddest
way possible, panting so that he could hardly articulate his words: “If
you—drunken ass that you are—dare to think that you could frighten _me_,
I’ll turn my face to the wall, and not look round once the whole night, to
show you how little I am afraid of you—a fool like you—if you stand there
from now till morning! I despise you!” So saying, Velchaninoff twisted
round with his face to the wall, rolled his blanket round him, and lay
motionless, as though turned to stone. A deathlike stillness supervened.

Did the ghost stand where it was, or had it moved? He could not tell; but
his heart beat, and beat, and beat—At least five minutes went by, and
then, not a couple of paces from his bed, there came the feeble voice of
Pavel Pavlovitch:

“I got up, Alexey Ivanovitch, to look for a little water. I couldn’t find
any, and was just going to look about nearer your bed——”

“Then why didn’t you answer when I called?” cried Velchaninoff angrily,
after a minute’s pause.

“I was frightened; you shouted so, you alarmed me!”

“You’ll find a caraffe and glass over there, on the little table. Light a
candle.”

“Oh, I’ll find it without. You’ll forgive me, Alexey Ivanovitch, for
frightening you so; I felt thirsty so suddenly.”

But Velchaninoff said nothing. He continued to lie with his face to the
wall, and so he lay all night, without turning round once. Was he anxious
to keep his word and show his contempt for Pavel Pavlovitch? He did not
know himself why he did it; his nervous agitation and perturbation were
such that he could not sleep for a long while, he felt quite delirious. At
last he fell asleep, and awoke at past nine o’clock next morning. He
started up just as though someone had struck him, and sat down on the side
of his bed. But Pavel Pavlovitch was not to be seen. His empty, rumpled
bed was there, but its occupant had flown before daybreak.

“I thought so!” cried Velchaninoff, bringing the palm of his right hand
smartly to his forehead.

CHAPTER X.

The doctor’s anxiety was justified; Liza grew worse, so much so that it
was clear she was far more seriously ill than Velchaninoff and Claudia
Petrovna had thought the day before.

When the former arrived in the morning, Liza was still conscious, though
burning with fever. He assured his friend Claudia, afterwards, that the
child had smiled at him and held out her little hot hand. Whether she
actually did so, or whether he so much longed for her to do so that he
imagined it done, is uncertain.

By the evening, however, Liza was quite unconscious, and so she remained
during the whole of her illness. Ten days after her removal to the country
she died.

This was a sad period for Velchaninoff; the Pogoryeltseffs were quite
anxious on his account. He was with them for the greater part of the time,
and during the last few days of the little one’s illness, he used to sit
all alone for hours together in some corner, apparently thinking of
nothing. Claudia Petrovna would attempt to distract him but he hardly
answered her, and conversation was clearly painful to him. Claudia was
quite surprised that “all this” should affect him so deeply.

The children were the best consolation and distraction for him; with them
he could even laugh and play at intervals. Every hour, at least, he would
rise from his chair and creep on tip-toes to the sick-room to look at the
little invalid. Sometimes he imagined that she knew him; he had no hope
for her recovery—none of the family had any hope; but he never left the
precincts of the child’s chamber, sitting principally in the next room.

Twice, however, he had evinced great activity of a sudden; he had jumped
up and started off for town, where he had called upon all the most eminent
doctors of the place, and arranged consultations between them. The last
consultation was on the day before Liza’s death.

Claudia Petrovna had spoken seriously to him a day or two since, as to the
absolute necessity of hunting up Pavel Pavlovitch Trusotsky, because in
case of anything happening to Liza, she could not be buried without
certain documents from him.

Velchaninoff promised to write to him, and did write a couple of lines,
which he took to the Pokrofsky. Pavel Pavlovitch was not at home, as
usual, but he left the letter to the care of Maria Sisevna.

At last Liza died—on a lovely summer evening, just as the sun was setting;
and only then did Velchaninoff rouse himself.

When the little one was laid out, all covered with flowers, and dressed in
a fair white frock belonging to one of Claudia Petrovna’s children,
Velchaninoff came up to the lady of the house, and told her with flashing
eyes that he would now go and fetch the murderer. Regardless of all advice
to put off his search until to-morrow he started for town immediately.

He knew where to find Pavel Pavlovitch. He had not been in town
exclusively to find the doctors those two days. Occasionally, while
watching the dying child, he had been struck with the idea that if he
could only find and bring down Pavel Pavlovitch she might hear his voice
and be called back, as it were, from the darkness of delirium; at such
moments he had been seized with desperation, and twice he had started up
and driven wildly off to town in order to find Pavel Pavlovitch.

The latter’s room was the same as before, but it was useless to look for
him there, for, according to Maria Sisevna’s report, he was now two or
three days absent from home at a stretch, and was generally to be found
with some friends in the Voznecensky.

Arrived in town about ten o’clock, Velchaninoff went straight to these
latter people, and securing the services of a member of the family to
assist in finding Pavel Pavlovitch, set out on his quest. He did not know
what he should do with Pavel Pavlovitch when found, whether he should kill
him then and there, or simply inform him of the death of the child, and of
the necessity for his assistance in arranging for her funeral. After a
long and fruitless search Velchaninoff found Pavel Pavlovitch quite
accidentally; he was quarrelling with some person in the street—tipsy as
usual, and seemed to be getting the worst of the controversy, which
appeared to be about a money claim.

On catching sight of Velchaninoff, Pavel Pavlovitch stretched out his arms
to him and begged for help; while his opponent—observing Velchaninoff’s
athletic figure—made off. Pavel Pavlovitch shook his fist after him
triumphantly, and hooted at him with cries of victory; but this amusement
was brought to a sudden conclusion by Velchaninoff, who, impelled by some
mysterious motive—which he could not analyse, took him by the shoulders,
and began to shake him violently, so violently that his teeth chattered.

Pavel Pavlovitch ceased to shout after his opponent, and gazed with a
stupid tipsy expression of alarm at his new antagonist. Velchaninoff,
having shaken him till he was tired, and not knowing what to do next with
him, set him down violently on the pavement, backwards.

“Liza is dead!” he said.

Pavel Pavlovitch sat on the pavement and stared, he was too far gone to
take in the news. At last he seemed to realize.

“Dead!” he whispered, in a strange inexplicable tone. Velchaninoff was not
sure whether his face was simply twitching, or whether he was trying to
grin in his usual disagreeable way; but the next moment the drunkard
raised his shaking hand to cross himself. He then struggled to his feet
and staggered off, appearing totally oblivious of the fact that such a
person as Velchaninoff existed.

However, the latter very soon pursued and caught him, seizing him once
more by the shoulder.

“Do you understand, you drunken sot, that without you the funeral
arrangements cannot be made?” he shouted, panting with rage.

Pavel Pavlovitch turned his head.

“The artillery—lieutenant—don’t you remember him?” he muttered, thickly.

“_What?_” cried Velchaninoff, with a shudder.

“He’s her father—find him! he’ll bury her!”

“You liar! You said that out of pure malice. I thought you’d invent
something of the sort!”

Quite beside himself with passion Velchaninoff brought down his powerful
fist with all his strength on Pavel Pavlovitch’s head; another moment and
he might have followed up the blow and slain the man as he stood. His
victim never winced, but he turned upon Velchaninoff a face of such insane
terrible passion, that his whole visage looked distorted.

“Do you understand Russian?” he asked more firmly, as though his fury had
chased away the effects of drunkenness. “Very well, then, you are a——!”
(here followed a specimen of the very vilest language which the Russian
tongue could furnish); “and now you can go back to her!” So saying he tore
himself from Velchaninoff’s grasp, nearly knocking himself over with the
effort, and staggered away. Velchaninoff did not follow him.

Next day, however, a most respectable-looking middle-aged man arrived at
the Pogoryeltseft’s house, in civil uniform, and handed to Claudia
Petrovna a packet addressed to her “from Pavel Pavlovitch Trusotsky.”

In this packet was a sum of three hundred roubles, together with all
certificates necessary for Liza’s funeral. Pavel Pavlovitch had written a
short note couched in very polite and correct phraseology, and thanking
Claudia Petrovna sincerely “for her great kindness to the orphan—kindness
for which heaven alone could recompense her.” He added rather confusedly
that severe illness prevented his personal presence at the funeral of his
“tenderly loved and unfortunate daughter,” but that he “felt he could
repose all confidence (as to the ceremony being fittingly performed) in
the angelic goodness of Claudia Petrovna.” The three hundred roubles, he
explained, were to go towards the funeral and other expenses. If there
should be any of the money left after defraying all charges, Claudia
Petrovna was requested to spend the same in prayers for the repose of the
soul of the deceased.

Nothing further was to be discovered by questioning the messenger; and it
was soon evident that the latter knew nothing, excepting that he had only
consented to act as bearer of the packet, in response to the urgent appeal
of Pavel Pavlovitch.

Pogoryeltseff was a little offended by the offer of money for expenses,
and would have sent it back, but Claudia Petrovna suggested that a receipt
should be taken from the cemetery authorities for the cost of the funeral
(since one could not well refuse to allow a man to bury his own child),
together with a document undertaking that the rest of the three hundred
roubles should be spent in prayer for the soul of Liza.

Velchaninoff afterwards posted an envelope containing these two papers to
Trusotsky’s lodging.

After the funeral Velchaninoff disappeared from the country altogether. He
wandered about town for a whole fortnight, knocking up against people as
he went blindly through the streets. Now and then he spent a whole day
lying in his bed, oblivious of the most ordinary needs and occupations;
the Pogoryeltseffs often invited him to their house, and he invariably
promised to come, and as invariably forgot all about it. Claudia Petrovna
went as far as to call for him herself, but she did not find him at home.
The same thing happened with his lawyer, who had some good news to tell
him. The difference with his opponent had been settled advantageously for
Velchaninoff, the former having accepted a small bonification and
renounced his claim to the property in dispute. All that was wanting was
the formal acquiescence of Velchaninoff himself.

Finding him at home at last, after many endeavours, the lawyer was
excessively surprised to discover that Velchaninoff was as callous and
cool as to the result of his (the lawyer’s) labours, as he had before been
ardent and excitable.

The hottest days of July had now arrived, but Velchaninoff was oblivious
of everything. His grief swelled and ached at his heart like some internal
boil; his greatest sorrow was that Liza had not had time to know him, and
died without ever guessing how fondly he loved her. The sweet new beacon
of his life, which had glimmered for a short while within his heart, was
extinguished once more, and lost in eternal gloom.

The whole object of his existence, as he now told himself at every moment,
should have been that Liza might feel his love about her and around her,
each day, each hour, each moment of her life.

“There can be no higher aim or object than this in life,” he thought, in
gloomy ecstasy. “If there be other aims in life, none can be holier or
better than this of mine. All my old unworthy life should have been
purified and atoned for by my love for Liza; in place of myself—my sinful,
worn-out, useless life—I should have bequeathed to the world a sweet,
pure, beautiful being, in whose innocence all my guilt should have been
absorbed, and lost, and forgiven, and in her I should have forgiven
myself.”

Such thoughts would flit through Velchaninoff’s head as he mused
sorrowfully over the memory of the dead child. He thought over all he had
seen of her; he recalled her little face all burning with fever, then
lying at rest in her coffin, covered with lovely flowers. He remembered
that once he had noticed that one of her fingers was quite black from some
bruise or pinch—goodness knows what had made it so, but it was the sight
of that little finger which had filled him with longing to go straight
away and _murder_ Pavel Pavlovitch.

“Do you know what Liza is to me?” Pavel had said, he recollected, one day;
and now he understood the exclamation. It was no pretence of love, no
posturing and nonsense—it was real love! How, then, could the wretch have
been so cruel to a child whom he so dearly loved? He could not bear to
think of it, the question was painful, and quite unanswerable.

One day he wandered down—he knew not exactly how—to the cemetery where
Liza was buried, and hunted up her grave. This was the first time he had
been there since the funeral; he had never dared to go there before,
fearing that the visit would be too painful. But strangely enough, when he
found the little mound and had bent down and kissed it, he felt happier
and lighter at heart than before.

It was a lovely evening, the sun was setting, the tall grass waved about
the tombs, and a bee hummed somewhere near him. The flowers and crosses
placed on the tomb by Claudia Petrovna were still there. A ray of hope
blazed up in his heart for the first time for many a long day. “How
light-hearted I feel,” he thought, as he felt the spell of the quiet of
God’s Acre, and the hush of the beautiful still evening. A flow of some
indefinable faith in something poured into his heart.

“This is Liza’s gift,” he thought; “this is Liza herself talking to me!”

It was quite dark when he left the cemetery and turned his steps
homewards.

Not far from the gate of the burial ground there stood a small inn or
public-house, and through the open windows he could see the people inside
sitting at tables. It instantly struck Velchaninoff that one of the
guests, sitting nearest to the window, was Pavel Pavlovitch, and that the
latter had seen him and was observing him curiously.

He went on further, but before very long he heard footsteps pursuing him.
It was, of course, Pavel Pavlovitch. Probably the unusually serene and
peaceful expression of Velchaninoff’s face as he went by had attracted and
encouraged him.

He soon caught Velchaninoff up, and smiled timidly at him, but not with
the old drunken grin. He did not appear to be in the smallest degree
drunk.

“Good evening,” said Pavel Pavlovitch.

“How d’ye do?” replied Velchaninoff.

CHAPTER XI.

By replying thus to Pavel Pavlovitch’s greeting Velchaninoff surprised
himself. It seemed strange indeed to him that he should now meet this man
without any feeling of anger, and that there should be something quite
novel in his feelings towards Pavel Pavlovitch—a sort of call to new
relations with him.

“What a lovely evening!” said Pavel Pavlovitch, looking observantly into
the other’s eyes.

“So you haven’t gone away yet!” murmured Velchaninoff, not in a tone of
inquiry, but as though musing upon the fact as he continued to walk on.

“I’ve been a good deal delayed; but I’ve obtained my petition, my new
post, with rise of salary. I’m off the day after to-morrow for certain.”

“What? You’ve obtained the new situation?”

“And why not?” said Pavel Pavlovitch, with a crooked smile.

“Oh, I meant nothing particular by my remark!” said Velchaninoff frowning,
and glancing sidelong at his companion. To his surprise Pavel Pavlovitch,
both in dress and appearance, even down to the hat with the crape band,
was incomparably neater and tidier-looking than he was wont to be a
fortnight since.

“Why was he sitting in the public-house then?” thought Velchaninoff. This
fact puzzled him much.

“I wished to let you know of my other great joy, Alexey Ivanovitch!”
resumed Pavel.

“Joy?”

“I’m going to marry.”

“What?”

“Yes, sir! after sorrow, joy! It is ever thus in life. Oh! Alexey
Ivanovitch, I should so much like if—but you look as though you were in a
great hurry.”

“Yes, I am in a hurry, and I am ill besides.” He felt as though he would
give anything to get rid of the man; the feeling of readiness to develop
new and better relations with him had vanished in a moment.

“I should so much like——”

Pavel Pavlovitch did not finish his sentence; Velchaninoff kept silence
and waited.

“In that case, perhaps another time—if we should happen to meet.”

“Yes, yes, another time,” said Velchaninoff quickly, continuing to move
along, and never looking at his companion.

Nothing was said for another minute or two. Pavel Pavlovitch continued to
trot alongside.

“In that case, _au revoir_,” he blurted, at last. “_Au revoir!_ I hope——”

Velchaninoff did not think it necessary to hear him complete his sentence;
he left Pavel, and returned home much agitated. The meeting with “that
fellow” had been too much for his present state of mind. As he lay down
upon his bed the thought came over him once more: “Why was that fellow
there, close to the cemetery?” He determined to go down to the
Pogoryeltseffs’ next morning; not that he felt inclined to go—any sympathy
was intolerably painful to him,—but they had been so kind and so anxious
about him, that he must really make up his mind to go. But next day, while
finishing his breakfast, he felt terribly disinclined for the visit; he
felt, as it were, shy of meeting them for the first time after his grief.
“Shall I go or not?” he was saying to himself, as he sat at his table.
When suddenly, to his extreme amazement, in walked Pavel Pavlovitch.

In spite of yesterday’s _rencontre_, Velchaninoff could not have believed
that this man would ever enter his rooms again; and when he now saw him
appear, he gazed at him in such absolute astonishment, that he simply did
not know what to say. But Pavel Pavlovitch took the management of the
matter into his own hands; he said “good morning,” and sat down in the
very same chair which he had occupied on his last visit, three weeks
since.

This circumstance reminded Velchaninoff too painfully of that visit, and
he glared at his visitor with disgust and some agitation.

“You are surprised, I see!” said Pavel Pavlovitch, reading the other’s
expression.

He seemed to be both freer, more at his ease, and yet more timid than
yesterday. His outward appearance was very curious to behold; for Pavel
Pavlovitch was not only _neatly_ dressed, he was “got up” in the pink of
fashion. He had on a neat summer overcoat, with a pair of light trousers
and a white waistcoat; his gloves, his gold eye-glasses (quite a new
acquisition), and his linen were quite above all criticism; he wafted an
odour of sweet scent when he moved. He looked funny, but his appearance
awakened strange thoughts besides.

“Of course I have surprised you, Alexey Ivanovitch,” he said, twisting
himself about; “I see it. But in my opinion there should be a something
exalted, something higher—untouched and unattainable by petty discords, or
the ordinary conditions of life, between man and man. Don’t you agree with
me, sir?”

“Pavel Pavlovitch, say what you have to say as quickly as you can, and
without further ceremony,” said Velchaninoff, frowning angrily.

“In a couple of words, sir,” said Pavel, hurriedly, “I am going to be
married, and I am now off to see my bride—at once. She lives in the
country; and what I desire is, the profound honour of introducing _you_ to
the family, sir; in fact, I have come here to petition you, sir” (Pavel
Pavlovitch bent his head deferentially)—“to beg you to go down with me.”

“Go down with you? Where to?” cried the other, his eyes starting out of
his head.

“To their house in the country, sir. Forgive me, my dear sir, if I am too
agitated, and confuse my words; but I am so dreadfully afraid of hearing
you refuse me.”

He looked at Velchaninoff plaintively.

“You wish me to accompany you to see your bride?” said Velchaninoff,
staring keenly at Pavel Pavlovitch; he could not believe either his eyes
or his ears.

“Yes—yes, sir!” murmured Pavel, who had suddenly become timid to a painful
degree. “Don’t be angry, Alexey Ivanovitch, it is not my audacity that
prompts me to ask you this; I do it with all humility, and conscious of
the unusual nature of my petition. I—I thought perhaps you would not
refuse my humble request.”

“In the first place, the thing is absolutely out of the question,” said
Velchaninoff, turning away in considerable mental perturbation.

“It is only my immeasurable longing that prompts me to ask you. I confess
I have a reason for desiring it, which reason I propose to reveal to you
afterwards; just now I——”

“The thing is quite impossible, however you may look at it. You must admit
yourself that it is so!” cried Velchaninoff. Both men had risen from their
chairs in the excitement of the conversation.

“Not at all—not at all; it is quite possible, sir. In the first place, I
merely propose to introduce you as my friend; and in the second place, you
know the family already, the Zachlebnikoff’s—State Councillor
Zachlebnikoff!”

“What? how so?” cried Velchaninoff. This was the very man whom he had so
often tried to find at home, and whom he never succeeded in hunting
down—the very lawyer who had acted for his adversary in the late legal
proceedings.

“Why, certainly—certainly!” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, apparently taking
heart at Velchaninoff’s extreme display of amazement. “The very same man
whom I saw you talking to in the street one day; when I watched you from
the other side of the road, I was waiting my turn to speak to him then. We
served in the same department twelve years since. I had no thought of all
this that day I saw you with him; the whole idea is quite new and
sudden—only a week old.”

“But—excuse me; why, surely this is a most respectable family, isn’t it?”
asked Velchaninoff, naïvely.

“Well, and what if it is respectable?” said Pavel, with a twist.

“Oh, no—of course, I meant nothing; but, so far as I could judge from what
I saw, there——”

“They remember—they remember your coming down,” cried Pavel delightedly.
“I told them all sorts of flattering things about you.”

“But, look here, how are you to marry within three months of your late
wife’s death?”

“Oh! the wedding needn’t be at once. The wedding can come off in nine or
ten months, so that I shall have been in mourning exactly a year. Believe
me, my dear sir, it’s all most charming—first place, Fedosie Petrovitch
has known me since I was a child; he knew my late wife; he knows how much
income I have; he knows all about my little private capital, and all about
my new increase of salary. So that you see the whole thing is a mere
matter of weights and scales.”

“Is she a daughter of his, then?”

“I’ll tell you all about it,” said Pavel, licking his lips with pleasure.
“May I smoke a cigarette? Now, you see, men like Fedosie Petrovitch
Zachlebnikoff are much valued in the State; but, excepting for a few
perquisites allowed them, the pay is wretched; they live well enough, but
they cannot possibly lay by money. Now, imagine, this man has eight
daughters and only one little boy: if he were to die there would be
nothing but a wretched little pension to keep the lot of them. Just
imagine now—_boots_ alone for such a family, eh? Well, out of these eight
girls five are marriageable, the eldest is twenty-four already (a splendid
girl, she is, you shall see her for yourself). The sixth is a girl of
fifteen, still at school. Well, all those five elder girls have to be
trotted about and shown off, and what does all that sort of thing cost the
poor father, sir? They must be married. Then suddenly I appear on the
scene—the first probable bridegroom in the family, and they all know that
I have money. Well, there you are, sir—the thing’s done.”

Pavel Pavlovitch was intoxicated with enthusiasm.

“Are you engaged to the eldest?”

“N—no;—not the eldest. I am wooing the sixth girl, the one at school.”

“What?” cried Velchaninoff, laughing in spite of himself. “Why, you say
yourself she’s only fifteen years old.”

“Fifteen _now_, sir; but she’ll be sixteen in nine months—sixteen and
three months—so why not? It wouldn’t be quite nice to make the engagement
public just yet, though; so there’s to be nothing formal at present, it’s
only a private arrangement between the parents and myself so far. Believe
me, my dear sir, the whole thing is apple-pie, regular and charming.”

“Then it isn’t quite settled yet?”

“Oh, _quite_ settled—quite settled. Believe me, it’s all as right and
tight as——”

“Does _she_ know?”

“Well, you see, just for form’s sake, it is not actually talked about—to
her I mean,—but she _knows_ well enough. Oh! now you _will_ make me happy
this once, Alexey Ivanovitch, won’t you?” he concluded, with extreme
timidity of voice and manner.

“But why should _I_ go with you? However,” added Velchaninoff impatiently,
“as I am not going in any case, I don’t see why I should hear any reasons
you may adduce for my accompanying you.”

“Alexey Ivanovitch!——”

“Oh, come! you don’t suppose I am going to sit down in a carriage with you
alongside, and drive down there! Come, just think for yourself!”

The feeling of disgust and displeasure which Pavel Pavlovitch had awakened
in him before, had now started into life again after the momentary
distraction of the man’s foolery about his bride. He felt that in another
minute or two he might kick the fellow out before he realized what he was
doing. He felt angry with himself for some reason or other.

“Sit down, Alexey Ivanovitch, sit down! You shall not repent it!” said
Pavel Pavlovitch in a wheedling voice. “No, no, no!” he added, deprecating
the impatient gesture which Velchaninoff made at this moment. “Alexey
Ivanovitch, I entreat you to pause before you decide definitely. I see you
have quite misunderstood me. I quite realize that I am not for you, nor
you for me! I am not quite so absurd as to be unaware of that fact. The
service I ask of you now shall not compromise you in any way for the
future. I am going away the day after to-morrow, for certain; let this one
day be an exceptional one for me, sir. I came to you founding my hopes
upon the generosity and nobility of your heart, Alexey Ivanovitch—upon
those special tender feelings which may, perhaps, have been aroused in you
by late events. Am I explaining myself clearly, sir; or do you still
misunderstand me?”

The agitation of Pavel Pavlovitch was increasing with every moment.

Velchaninoff gazed curiously at him.

“You ask a service of me,” he said thoughtfully, “and insist strongly upon
my performance of it. This is very suspicious, in my opinion; I must know
more.”

“The whole service I ask is merely that you will come with me; and I
promise, when we return that I will lay bare my heart to you as though we
were at a confessional. Trust me this once, Alexey Ivanovitch!”

But Velchaninoff still held out, and the more obstinately because he was
conscious of a certain worrying feeling which he had had ever since Pavel
Pavlovitch began to talk about his bride. Whether this feeling was simple
curiosity, or something quite inexplicable, he knew not. Whatever it was
it urged him to agree, and go. And the more the instinct urged him, the
more he resisted it.

He sat and thought for a long time, his head resting on his hand, while
Pavel Pavlovitch buzzed about him and continued to repeat his arguments.

“Very well,” he said at last, “very well, I’ll go.” He was agitated almost
to trembling pitch. Pavel was radiant.

“Then, Alexey Ivanovitch, change your clothes—dress up, will you? Dress up
in your own style—you know so well how to do it.”

Pavel Pavlovitch danced about Velchaninoff as he dressed. His state of
mind was exuberantly blissful.

“What in the world does the fellow mean by it all?” thought Velchaninoff.

“I’m going to ask you one more favour yet, Alexey Ivanovitch,” cried the
other. “You’ve consented to come; you must be my guide, sir, too.”

“For instance, how?”

“Well, for instance, here’s an important question—the crape. Which ought I
to do—tear it off, or leave it on?”

“Just as you like.”

“No, I want your opinion. What should you do yourself, if you were wearing
crape, under the circumstances? My own idea was, that if I left it on, I
should be giving a proof of the fidelity of my affections. A very
flattering recommendation, eh, sir?”

“Oh, take it off, of course.”

“Do you really think it’s a matter of ’of course’?” Pavel Pavlovitch
reflected. “No,” he continued, “do you know, I think I’d rather leave it
on.”

“Well, do as you like! He doesn’t trust me, at all events, which is one
good thing,” thought Velchaninoff.

They left the house at last. Pavel looked over his companion’s smart
costume with intense satisfaction. Velchaninoff was greatly surprised at
Pavel’s conduct, but not less so at his own. At the gate there stood a
very superior open carriage.

“H’m! so you had a carriage in waiting, had you? Then you were quite
convinced that I would consent to come down with you, I suppose?”

“I took the carriage for my own use, but I was nearly sure you would
come,” said Pavel Pavlovitch, who wore the air of a man whose cup of
happiness is full to the brim.

“Don’t you think you are a little too sanguine in trusting so much to my
benevolence?” asked Velchaninoff, as they took their seats and started. He
smiled as he spoke, but his heart was full of annoyance.

“Well, Alexey Ivanovitch, it is not for _you_ to call me a fool for that,”
replied Pavel, firmly and impressively.

“H’m! and Liza?” thought Velchaninoff, but he chased the idea away, he
felt as though it were sacrilege to think of her here; and immediately
another thought came in, namely, how small, how petty a creature he must
be himself to harbour such a thought—such a mean, paltry sentiment in
connection with Liza’s sacred name. So angry was he, that he felt as
though he must stop the carriage and get out, even though it cost him a
struggle with Pavel Pavlovitch to do so.

But at this moment Pavel spoke, and the old feeling of desire to go with
him re-entered his soul. “Alexey Ivanovitch,” Pavel said, “are you a judge
of articles of value?”

“What sort of articles?”

“Diamonds.”

“Yes.”

“I wish to take down a present with me. What do you think? Ought I to give
her one, or not?”

“Quite unnecessary, I should think.”

“But I wish to do it, badly. The only thing is, what shall I give?—a whole
set, brooch, ear-rings, bracelet, and all, or only one article?”

“How much do you wish to spend?”

“Oh, four or five hundred roubles.”

“Bosh!”

“What, too much?”

“Buy one bracelet for about a hundred.”

This advice depressed Pavel Pavlovitch; he grew wondrous melancholy. He
was terribly anxious to spend a lot of money, and buy the whole set. He
insisted upon the necessity of doing so.

A shop was reached and entered, and Pavel bought a bracelet after all, and
that not the one he chose himself, but the one which his companion fixed
upon. Pavel wished to buy both. When the shopman, who originally asked one
hundred and seventy five, let the bracelet go for a hundred and fifty
roubles, Pavel Pavlovitch was anything but pleased. He was most anxious to
spend a lot of money on the young lady, and would have gladly paid two
hundred roubles for the same goods, on the slightest encouragement.

“It doesn’t matter, my being in a hurry to give her presents, does it?” he
began excitedly, when they were back in the carriage, and rolling along
once more. “They are not ‘swells’ at all; they live most simply. Innocence
loves presents,” he continued, smiling cunningly. “You laughed just now,
Alexey Ivanovitch, when I said that the girl was only fifteen; but, you
know, what specially struck me about her was, that she still goes to
school, with a sweet little bag in her hand, containing copy books and
pencils. Ha-ha-ha! It was the little satchel that ‘fetched’ me. I do love
innocence, Alexey Ivanovitch. I don’t care half so much for good looks as
for innocence. Fancy, she and her friend were sitting in the corner there,
the other day, and roared with laughter because the cat jumped from a
cupboard on to the sofa, and fell down all of a heap. Why, it smells of
fresh apples, that does, sir. Shall I take off the crape, eh?”

“Do as you like!”

“Well, I’ll take it off!” He took his hat, tore the crape off, and threw
the latter into the road.

Velchaninoff remarked that as he put his hat on his bald head once more,
he wore an expression of the simplest and frankest hope and delight.

“Is he _really_ that sort of man?” thought Velchaninoff with annoyance.
“He surely _can’t_ be trundling me down here without some underhand
motive—impossible! He _can’t_ be trusting entirely to my generosity?” This
last idea seemed to fill him with indignation. “What _is_ this clown of a
fellow?” he continued to reflect. “Is he a fool, an idiot, or simply a
‘permanent husband’? I can’t make head or tail of it all!”

CHAPTER XII.

The Zachlebnikoffs were certainly, as Velchaninoff had expressed it, a
most respectable family. Zachlebnikoff himself was a most eminently
dignified and “solid” gentleman to look at. What Pavel Pavlovitch had said
as to their resources was, however, quite true; they lived well, but if
paterfamilias were to die, it would be very awkward for the rest.

Old Zachlebnikoff received Velchaninoff most cordially. He was no longer
the legal opponent; he appeared now in a far more agreeable guise.

“I congratulate you,” he said at once, “upon the issue. I did my best to
arrange it so, and your lawyer was a capital fellow to deal with. You have
your sixty thousand without trouble or worry, you see; and if we hadn’t
squared it we might have fought on for two or three years.”

Velchaninoff was introduced to the lady of the house as well—an elderly,
simple-looking, worn woman. Then the girls began to troop in, one by one
and occasionally two together. But, somehow, there seemed to be even more
than Velchaninoff had been led to expect; ten or a dozen were collected
already—he could not count them exactly. It turned out that some were
friends from the neighbouring houses.

The Zachlebnikoffs’ country house was a large wooden structure of no
particular style of architecture, but handsome enough, and was possessed
of a fine large garden. There were, however, two or three other houses
built round the latter, so that the garden was common property for all,
which fact resulted in great intimacy between the Zachlebnikoff girls and
the young ladies of the neighbouring houses.

Velchaninoff discovered, almost from the first moment, that his arrival—in
the capacity of Pavel Pavlovitch’s friend, desiring an introduction to the
family—was expected, and looked forward to as a solemn and important
occasion.

Being an expert in such matters he very soon observed that there was even
more than this in his reception. Judging from the extra politeness of the
parents, and by the exceeding smartness of the young ladies, he could not
help suspecting that Pavel Pavlovitch had been improving the occasion, and
that he had—not, of course, in so many words—given to understand that
Velchaninoff was a single man—dull and disconsolate, and had represented
him as likely enough at any moment to change his manner of living and set
up an establishment, especially as he had just come in for a considerable
inheritance. He thought that Katerina Fedosievna, the eldest
girl—twenty-four years of age, and a splendid girl according to Pavel’s
description—seemed rather “got up to kill,” from the look of her. She was
eminent, even among her well-dressed sisters, for special elegance of
costume, and for a certain originality about the make-up of her abundant
hair.

The rest of the girls all looked as though they were well aware that
Velchaninoff was making acquaintance with the family “for Katie,” and had
come down “to have a look at her.” Their looks and words all strengthened
the impression that they were acting with this supposition in view, as the
day went on.

Katerina Fedosievna was a fine tall girl, rather plump, and with an
extremely pleasing face. She seemed to be of a quiet, if not actually
sleepy, disposition.

“Strange, that such a fine girl should be unmarried,” thought
Velchaninoff, as he watched her with much satisfaction.

All the sisters were nice-looking, and there were several pretty faces
among the friends assembled. Velchaninoff was much diverted by the
presence of all these young ladies.

Nadejda Fedosievna, the school-girl and bride elect of Pavel Pavlovitch,
had not as yet condescended to appear. Velchaninoff awaited her coming
with a degree of impatience which surprised and amused him. At last she
came, and came with effect, too, accompanied by a lively girl, her
friend—Maria Nikitishna—who was considerably older than herself and a very
old friend of the family, having been governess in a neighbouring house
for some years. She was quite one of the family, and boasted of about
twenty-three years of age. She was much esteemed by all the girls, and
evidently acted at present as guide, philosopher, and friend to Nadia
(Nadejda). Velchaninoff saw at the first glance that all the girls were
against Pavel Pavlovitch, friends and all; and when Nadia came in, it did
not take him long to discover that she absolutely _hated_ him. He
observed, further, that Pavel Pavlovitch either did not, or _would not_,
notice this fact.

Nadia was the prettiest of all the girls—a little _brunette_, with an
impudent audacious expression; she might have been a Nihilist from the
independence of her look. The sly little creature had a pair of flashing
eyes and a most charming smile, though as often as not her smile was more
full of mischief and wickedness than of amiability; her lips and teeth
were wonders; she was slender but well put together, and the expression of
her face was thoughtful though at the same time childish.

“Fifteen years old” was imprinted in every feature of her face and every
motion of her body. It appeared afterwards that Pavel Pavlovitch had
actually seen the girl for the first time with a little satchel in her
hand, coming back from school. She had ceased to carry the satchel since
that day.

The present brought down by Pavel Pavlovitch proved a failure, and was the
cause of a very painful impression.

Pavel Pavlovitch no sooner saw his bride elect enter the room than he
approached her with a broad grin on his face. He gave his present with the
preface that he “offered it in recognition of the agreeable sensation
experienced by him at his last visit upon the occasion of Nadejda
Fedosievna singing a certain song to the pianoforte,” and there he stopped
in confusion and stood before her lost and miserable, shoving the
jeweller’s box into her hand. Nadia, however, would not take the present,
and drew her hands away.

She approached her mother imperiously (the latter looked much put out),
and said aloud: “I won’t take it, mother.” Nadia was blushing with shame
and anger.

“Take it and say ‘thank you’ to Pavel Pavlovitch for it,” said her father
quietly but firmly. He was very far from pleased.

“Quite unnecessary, quite unnecessary!” he muttered to Pavel Pavlovitch.

Nadia, seeing there was nothing else to be done, took the case and
curtsied—just as children do, giving a little bob down and then a bob up
again, as if she had been on springs.

One of the sisters came across to look at the present whereupon Nadia
handed it over to her unopened, thereby showing that she did not care so
much as to look at it herself.

The bracelet was taken out and handed around from one to the other of the
company; but all examined it silently, and some even ironically, only the
mother of the family muttered that the bracelet was “very pretty.”

Pavel Pavlovitch would have been delighted to see the earth open and
swallow him up.

Velchaninoff helped the wretched man out of the mess. He suddenly began to
talk loudly and eloquently about the first thing that struck him, and
before five minutes had passed he had won the attention of everyone in the
room. He was a wonderfully clever society talker. He had the knack of
putting on an air of absolute sincerity, and of impressing his hearers
with the belief that he considered them equally sincere; he was able to
act the simple, careless, and happy young fellow to perfection. He was a
master of the art of interlarding his talk with occasional flashes of real
wit, apparently spontaneous but actually pre-arranged, and very likely
_stale_, in so far that he had himself made the joke before.

But to-day he was particularly successful; he felt that he must talk on
and talk well, and he knew that before many moments were past he should
succeed in monopolizing all eyes and all ears—that no joke should be
laughed at but his own, and no voice heard but his.

And sure enough the spell of his presence seemed to produce a wonderful
effect; in a while the talking and laughter became general, with
Velchaninoff as the centre and motor of all. Mrs. Zachlebnikoff’s kind
face lighted up with real pleasure, and Katie’s pretty eyes were alight
with absolute fascination, while her whole visage glowed with delight.

Only Nadia frowned at him, and watched him keenly from beneath her dark
lashes. It was clear that she was prejudiced against him. This last fact
only roused Velchaninoff to greater exertions. The mischievous Maria
Nikitishna, however, as Nadia’s ally, succeeded in playing off a
successful piece of chaff against Velchaninoff; she pretended that Pavel
Pavlovitch had represented Velchaninoff as the friend of his childhood,
thereby making the latter out to be some seven or eight years older than
he really was. Velchaninoff liked the look of Maria, notwithstanding.

Pavel Pavlovitch was the picture of perplexity. He quite understood the
success which his “friend” was achieving, and at first he felt glad and
proud of that success, laughing at the jokes and taking a share of the
conversation; but for some reason or other he gradually relapsed into
thoughtfulness, and thence into melancholy—which fact was sufficiently
plain from the expression of his lugubrious and careworn physiognomy.

“Well, my dear fellow, you are the sort of guest one need not exert
oneself to entertain,” said old Zachlebnikoff at last, rising and making
for his private study, where he had business of importance awaiting his
attention; “and I was led to believe that you were the most morose of
hypochondriacs. Dear me! what mistakes one does make about other people,
to be sure!”

There was a grand piano in the room, and Velchaninoff suddenly turned to
Nadia and remarked:

“You sing, don’t you?”

“Who told you I did?” said Nadia curtly.

“Pavel Pavlovitch.”

“It isn’t true; I only sing for a joke—I have no voice.”

“Oh, but I have no voice either, and yet I sing!”

“Well, you sing to us first, and then I’ll sing,” said Nadia, with
sparkling eyes; “not now though—after dinner. I hate music,” she added,
“I’m so sick of the piano. We have singing and strumming going on all day
here;—and Katie is the only one of us all worth hearing!”

Velchaninoff immediately attacked Katie, and besieged her with petitions
to play. This attention from him to her eldest daughter so pleased mamma
that she flushed up with satisfaction.

Katie went to the piano, blushing like a school-girl, and evidently much
ashamed of herself for blushing; she played some little piece of Haydn’s
correctly enough but without much expression.

When she had finished Velchaninoff praised the music warmly—Haydn’s music
generally, and this little piece in particular. He looked at Katie too,
with admiration, and his expression seemed to say. “By Jove, you’re a fine
girl!” So eloquent was his look that everyone in the room was able to read
it, and especially Katie herself.

“What a pretty garden you have!” said Velchaninoff after a short pause,
looking through the glass doors of the balcony. “Let’s all go out; may
we?”

“Oh, yes! do let’s go out!” cried several voices together. He seemed to
have hit upon the very thing most desired by all.

So they all adjourned into the garden, and walked about there until
dinner-time; and Velchaninoff had the opportunity of making closer
acquaintance with some of the girls of the establishment. Two or three
young fellows “dropped in” from the neighbouring houses—a student, a
school-boy, and another young fellow of about twenty in a pair of huge
spectacles. Each of these young fellows immediately attached himself to
the particular young lady of his choice.

The young man in spectacles no sooner arrived than he went aside with
Nadia and Maria Nikitishna, and entered into an animated whispering
conversation with them, with much frowning and impatience of manner.

This gentleman seemed to consider it his mission to treat Pavel Pavlovitch
with the most ineffable contempt.

Some of the girls proposed a game. One of them suggested “Proverbs,” but
it was voted dull; another suggested acting, but the objection was made
that they never knew how to finish off.

“It may be more successful with you,” said Nadia to Velchaninoff
confidentially. “You know we all thought you were Pavel Pavlovitch’s
friend, but it appears that he was only boasting. I am _very_ glad you
have come—for a certain reason!” she added, looking knowingly into
Velchaninoff’s face, and then retreating back again to Maria’s wing,
blushing.

“We’ll play ‘Proverbs’ in the evening,” said another, “and we’ll all chaff
Pavel Pavlovitch; _you_ must help us too!”

“We _are_ so glad you’re come—it’s so dull here as a rule,” said a third,
a funny-looking red-haired girl, whose face was comically hot, with
running apparently. Goodness knows where she had dropped from;
Velchaninoff had not observed her arrive.

Pavel Pavlovitch’s agitation increased every moment. Meanwhile
Velchaninoff took the opportunity of making great friends with Nadia. She
had ceased to frown at him as before, and had now developed the wildest of
spirits, dancing and jumping about, singing and whistling, and
occasionally even catching hold of his hand in her innocent friendliness.

She was very happy indeed, apparently; but she took no more notice of
Pavel Pavlovitch than if he had not been there at all.

Pavel Pavlovitch was very jealous of all this, and once or twice when
Nadia and Velchaninoff talked apart, he joined them and rudely interrupted
their conversation by interposing his anxious face between them.

Katia could not help being fully aware by this time that their charming
guest had not come in for her sake, as had been believed by the family;
indeed, it was clear that Nadia interested him so much that she excluded
everyone else, to a considerable extent, from his attention. However, in
spite of this, her good-natured face retained its amiability of expression
all the same. She seemed to be happy enough witnessing the happiness of
the rest and listening to the merry talk; she could not take a large share
in the conversation herself, poor girl!

“What a fine girl your sister, Katerina Fedosievna is,” remarked
Velchaninoff to Nadia.

“Katia? I should think so! there is no better girl in the world. She’s our
family angel! I’m in love with her myself!” replied Nadia
enthusiastically.

At last, dinner was announced, and a very good dinner it was, several
courses being added for the benefit of the guests: a bottle of tokay made
its appearance, and champagne was handed round in honour of the occasion.
The good humour of the company was general, old Zachlebnikoff was in high
spirits, having partaken of an extra glass of wine this evening. So
infectious was the hilarity that even Pavel Pavlovitch took heart of grace
and made a pun. From the end of the table where he sat beside the lady of
the house, there suddenly came a loud laugh from the delighted girls who
had been fortunate enough to hear the virgin attempt.

“Papa, papa, Pavel Pavlovitch has made a joke!” cried several at once: “he
says that there is quite a ‘galaxy of gals’ here!”

“Oho! _he’s_ made a pun too, has he?” cried the old fellow. “Well, what is
it, let’s have it!” He turned to Pavel Pavlovitch with beaming face,
prepared to roar over the latter’s joke.

“Why, I tell you, he says there’s quite a ‘galaxy of gals.’ ”

“Well, go on, where’s the joke?” repeated papa, still dense to the merits
of the pun, but beaming more and more with benevolent desire to see it.

“Oh, papa, how stupid you are not to see it. Why ‘gals’ and ‘galaxy,’
don’t you see?—he says there’s quite a gal-axy of gals!”

“Oh! oh!” guffawed the old gentleman, “Ha-ha! Well, we’ll hope he’ll make
a better one next time, that’s all.”

“Pavel Pavlovitch can’t acquire all the perfections at once,” said Maria
Nikitishna. “Oh, my goodness! he’s swallowed a bone—look!” she added,
jumping up from her chair.

The alarm was general, and Maria’s delight was great.

Poor Pavel Pavlovitch had only choked over a glass of wine, which he
seized and drank to hide his confusion; but Maria declared that it was a
fishbone—that she had seen it herself, and that people had been known to
die of swallowing a bone just like that.

“Clap him on the back!” cried somebody.

It appeared that there were numerous kind friends ready to perform this
friendly office, and poor Pavel protested in vain that it was nothing but
a common choke. The belabouring went on until the coughing fit was over,
and it became evident that mischievous Maria was at the bottom of it all.

After dinner old Mr. Zachlebnikoff retired for his post-prandial nap,
bidding the young people enjoy themselves in the garden as best they
might.

“You enjoy yourself, too!” he added to Pavel Pavlovitch, tapping the
latter’s shoulder affably as he went by.

When the party were all collected in the garden once more, Pavel suddenly
approached Velchaninoff: “One moment,” he whispered, pulling the latter by
the coat-sleeve.

The two men went aside into a lonely by-path.

“None of that _here_, please; I won’t allow it here!” said Pavel
Pavlovitch in a choking whisper.

“None of what? Who?” asked Velchaninoff, staring with all his eyes.

Pavel Pavlovitch said nothing more, but gazed furiously at his companion,
his lips trembling in a desperate attempt at a pretended smile. At this
moment the voices of several of the girls broke in upon them, calling them
to some game. Velchaninoff shrugged his shoulders and re-joined the party.
Pavel followed him.

“I’m sure Pavel Pavlovitch was borrowing a handkerchief from you, wasn’t
he? He forgot his handkerchief last time too. Pavel Pavlovitch has
forgotten his handkerchief again, and he has a cold as usual!” cried
Maria.

“Oh, Pavel Pavlovitch, why didn’t you say so?” cried Mrs. Zachlebnikoff,
making towards the house; “you shall have one at once.”

In vain poor Pavel protested that he had two of those necessary articles,
and was _not_ suffering from a cold. Mrs. Zachlebnikoff was glad of the
excuse for retiring to the house, and heard nothing. A few moments
afterwards a maid pursued Pavel with a handkerchief, to the confusion of
the latter gentleman.

A game of “proverbs” was now proposed. All sat down, and the young man
with spectacles was made to retire to a considerable distance and wait
there with his nose close up against the wall and his back turned until
the proverb should have been chosen and the words arranged. Velchaninoff
was the next in turn to be the questioner.

Then the cry arose for Pavel Pavlovitch, and the latter, who had more or
less recovered his good humour by this time, proceeded to the spot
indicated; and, resolved to do his duty like a man, took his stand with
his nose to the wall, ready to stay there motionless until called. The
red-haired young lady was detailed to watch him, in case of fraud on his
part.

No sooner, however, had the wretched Pavel taken up his position at the
wall, than the whole party took to their heels and ran away as fast as
their legs could carry them.

“Run quick!” whispered the girls to Velchaninoff, in despair, for he had
not started with them.

“Why, what’s happened? What’s the matter?” asked the latter, keeping up as
best he could.

“Don’t make a noise! we want to get away and let him go on standing
there—that’s all.”

Katia, it appeared, did not like this practical joke. When the last
stragglers of the party arrived at the end of the garden, among them
Velchaninoff, the latter found Katia angrily scolding the rest of the
girls.

“Very well,” she was saying, “I won’t tell mother this time; but I shall
go away myself: it’s too bad! What will the poor fellow’s feelings be,
standing all alone there, and finding us fled!”

And off she went. The rest, however, were entirely unsympathizing, and
enjoyed the joke thoroughly. Velchaninoff was entreated to appear entirely
unconscious when Pavel Pavlovitch should appear again, just as though
nothing whatever had happened. It was a full quarter of an hour before
Pavel put in an appearance, two thirds, at least, of that time he must
have stood at the wall. When he reached the party he found everyone busy
over a game of _Goriélki_, laughing and shouting and making themselves
thoroughly happy.

Wild with rage, Pavel Pavlovitch again made straight for Velchaninoff, and
tugged him by the coat-sleeve.

“One moment, sir!”

“Oh, my goodness! he’s always coming in with his ‘one moments’!” said
someone.

“A handkerchief wanted again probably!” shouted someone else after the
pair as they retired.

“Come now, this time it was you! You were the originator of this insult!”
muttered Pavel, his teeth chattering with fury.

Velchaninoff interrupted him, and strongly recommended Pavel to bestir
himself to be merrier.

“You are chaffed because you get angry,” he said; “if you try to be jolly
instead of sulky you’ll be let alone!”

To his surprise these words impressed Pavel deeply; he was quiet at once,
and returned to the party with a guilty air, and immediately began to take
part in the games engaged in once more. He was not further bullied at
present, and within half an hour his good humour seemed quite
re-established.

To Velchaninoff’s astonishment, however, he never seemed to presume to
speak to Nadia, although he kept as close to her, on all occasions, as he
possibly could. He seemed to take his position as quite natural, and was
not put out by her contemptuous air towards him.

Pavel Pavlovitch was teased once more, however, before the evening ended.

A game of “Hide-and-seek” was commenced, and Pavel had hidden in a small
room in the house. Being observed entering there by someone, he was locked
in, and left there raging for an hour. Meanwhile, Velchaninoff learned the
“special reason” for Nadia’s joy at his arrival. Maria conducted him to a
lonely alley, where Nadia was awaiting him alone.

“I have quite convinced myself,” began the latter, when they were left
alone, “that you are not nearly so great a friend of Pavel Pavlovitch as
he gave us to understand. I have also convinced myself that you alone can
perform a certain great service for me. Here is his horrid bracelet” (she
drew the case out of her pocket)—“I wish to ask you to be so kind as to
return it to him; I cannot do so myself, because I am quite determined
never to speak to him again all my life. You can tell him so from me, and
better add that he is not to worry me with any more of his nasty presents.
I’ll let him know something else I have to say through other channels.
Will you do this for me?”

“Oh, for goodness sake, spare me!” cried Velchaninoff, almost wringing his
hands.

“How spare you?” cried poor Nadia. Her artificial tone put on for the
occasion had collapsed at once before this check, and she was nearly
crying. Velchaninoff burst out laughing.

“I don’t mean—I should be delighted, you know—but the thing is, I have my
own accounts to settle with him!”

“I knew you weren’t his friend, and that he was lying. I shall never marry
him—never! You may rely on that! I don’t understand how he could dare—at
all events, you really _must_ give him back this horrid bracelet. What am
I to do if you don’t? I _must_ have it given back to him this very day.
He’ll catch it if he interferes with father about me!”

At this moment the spectacled young gentleman issued from the shrubs at
their elbow.

“You are bound to return the bracelet!” he burst out furiously, upon
Velchaninoff, “if only out of respect to the rights of woman——”

He did not finish the sentence, for Nadia pulled him away from beside
Velchaninoff with all her strength.

“How stupid you are,” she cried; “go away. How dare you listen? I told you
to stand a long way off!” She stamped her foot with rage, and for some
while after the young fellow had slunk away she continued to walk along
with flashing eyes, furious with indignation. “You wouldn’t believe how
stupid he is!” she cried at last. “You laugh, but think of my feelings!”

“That’s not _he_, is it?” laughed Velchaninoff.

“Of course not. How could you imagine such a thing! It’s only his friend,
and how he can choose such friends I can’t understand! They say he is a
‘future motive-power,’ but I don’t see it. Alexey Ivanovitch, for the last
time—I have no one else to ask—will you give the bracelet back or not?”

“Very well, I will. Give it to me!”

“Oh, you dear, good Alexey Ivanovitch, thanks!” she cried, enthusiastic
with delight. “I’ll sing all the evening for that! I sing beautifully, you
know! I was telling you a wicked story before dinner. Oh, I _wish_ you
would come down here again; I’d tell you _all_, then, and lots of other
things besides—for you are a dear, kind, good fellow, like—like Katia!”

And sure enough when they reached home she sat down and sang a couple of
songs in a voice which, though entirely untrained, was of great natural
sweetness and considerable strength.

When the party returned from the garden they had found Pavel Pavlovitch
drinking tea with the old folks on the balcony. He had probably been
talking on serious topics, as he was to take his departure the day after
to-morrow for nine months. He never so much as glanced at Velchaninoff and
the rest when they entered; but he evidently had not complained to the
authorities, and all was quiet as yet. But, when Nadia began to sing, he
came in. Nadia did not answer a single one of his questions, but he did
not seem offended by this, and took his stand behind her chair. Once
there, his whole appearance gave it to be understood that that was his own
place by right, and that he allowed none to dispute it.

“It’s Alexey Ivanovitch’s turn to sing now!” cried the girls, when Nadia’s
song was finished, and all crowded round to hear Velchaninoff, who sat
down to accompany himself. He chose a song of Glinke’s, too much neglected
nowadays; it ran:—

“When from your merry lips
Tenderness flows,” &c.

Velchaninoff seemed to address the words to Nadia exclusively, but the
whole party stood around him. His voice had long since gone the way of all
flesh, but it was clear that he must have had a good one once, and it so
happened that Velchaninoff had heard this particular song many years ago,
from Glinkes’ own lips, when a student at the university, and remembered
the great effect that it had made upon him when he first heard it. The
song was full of the most intense passion of expression, and Velchaninoff
sang it well, with his eyes fixed upon Nadia.

Amid the applause that followed the completion of the performance, Pavel
Pavlovitch came forward, seized Nadia’s hand and drew her away from the
proximity of Velchaninoff; he then returned to the latter at the piano,
and, with every evidence of frantic rage, whispered to him, his lips all
of a tremble,

“One moment with you!”

Velchaninoff, seeing that the man was capable of worse things in his then
frame of mind, took Pavel’s hand and led him out through the balcony into
the garden—quite dark now.

“Do you understand, sir, that you must come away at once—_this very
minute_?” said Pavel Pavlovitch.

“No, sir, I do not!”

“Do you remember,” continued Pavel in his frenzied whisper, “do you
remember that you begged me to tell you _all_, _everything_—down to the
smallest details? Well, the time has come for telling you all—come!”

Velchaninoff considered a moment, glanced once more at Pavel Pavlovitch,
and consented to go.

“Oh! stay and have another cup of tea!” said Mrs. Zachlebnikoff, when this
decision was announced.

“Pavel Pavlovitch, why are you taking Alexey Ivanovitch away?” cried the
girls, with angry looks. As for Nadia, she looked so cross with Pavel,
that the latter felt absolutely uncomfortable; but he did not give in.

“Oh, but I am very much obliged to Pavel Pavlovitch,” said Velchaninoff,
“for reminding me of some most important business which I must attend to
this very evening, and which I might have forgotten,” laughed
Velchaninoff, as he shook hands with his host and made his bow to the
ladies, especially to Katia, as the family thought.

“You must come again soon!” said the host; “we have been so glad to see
you; it was so good of you to come!”

“Yes, _so_ glad!” said the lady of the house.

“Do come again soon!” cried the girls, as Pavel Pavlovitch and
Velchaninoff took their seats in the carriage; “Alexey Ivanovitch, _do_
come back soon!” And with these voices in their ears they drove away.

CHAPTER XIII.

In spite of Velchaninoff’s apparently happy day, the feeling of annoyance
and suffering at his heart had hardly actually left him for a single
moment. Before he sang the song he had not known what to do with himself,
or suppressed anger and melancholy—perhaps that was the reason why he had
sung with so much feeling and passion.

“To think that I could so have lowered myself as to forget everything!” he
thought—and then despised himself for thinking it; “it is more humiliating
still to cry over what is done,” he continued. “Far better to fly into a
passion with someone instead.”

“Fool!” he muttered—looking askance at Pavel Pavlovitch, who sat beside
him as still as a mouse. Pavel Pavlovitch preserved a most obstinate
silence—probably concentrating and ranging his energies. He occasionally
took his hat off, impatiently, and wiped the perspiration from his
forehead.

Once—and once only—Pavel spoke, to the coachman, he asked whether there
was going to be a thunder-storm.

“Wheugh!” said the man, “I should think so! It’s been a steamy day—just
the day for it!”

By the time town was reached—half-past ten—the whole sky was overcast.

“I am coming to your house,” said Pavel to Velchaninoff, when almost at
the door.

“Quite so; but I warn you, I feel very unwell to-night!”

“All right—I won’t stay too long.”

When the two men passed under the gateway, Pavel Pavlovitch disappeared
into the ’dvornik’s’ room for a minute, to speak to Mavra.

“What did you go in there for?” asked Velchaninoff severely as they
mounted the stairs and reached his own door.

“Oh—nothing—nothing at all,—just to tell them about the coachman.——”

“Very well. Mind, I shall not allow you to drink!”

Pavel Pavlovitch did not answer.

Velchaninoff lit a candle, while Pavel threw himself into a chair;—then
the former came and stood menacingly before him.

“I may have told you I should have _my_ last word to say to-night, as well
as you!” he said with suppressed anger in his voice and manner: “Here it
is. I consider conscientiously that things are square between you and me,
now; and therefore there is no more to be said, understand me, about
_anything_. Since this is so, had you not better go, and let me close the
door after you?”

“Let’s cry ‘quits’ first, Alexey Ivanovitch,” said Pavel Pavlovitch,
gazing into Velchaninoff’s eyes with great sweetness.

“Quits?” cried the latter, in amazement; “you strange man, what are we to
cry quits about? Are you harping upon your promise of a ‘last word’?”

“Yes.”

“Oh, well, we have nothing more to cry quits for. We have been quits long
since,” said Velchaninoff.

“Dear me, do you really think so?” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, in a shrill,
sharp voice, pressing his two hands tightly together, finger to finger, as
he held them up before his breast.

Velchaninoff said nothing. He rose from his seat and began to walk up and
down the room. The word “Liza” resounded through and through his soul like
the voice of a bell.

“Well, what is there that you still consider unsettled between us?” he
asked at last, looking angrily at Pavel, who had never ceased to follow
him with his eyes—always holding his hands before his breast, finger tip
to finger tip.

“Don’t go down there any more,” said Pavel, almost in a whisper, and
rising from his seat with every indication of humble entreaty.

“_What!_ is _that_ all?” cried Velchaninoff, bursting into an angry laugh;
“good heavens, man, you have done nothing but surprise me all day.” He had
begun in a tone of exasperation, but he now abruptly changed both voice
and expression, and continued with an air of deep feeling. “Listen,” he
said, “listen to me. I don’t think I have ever felt so deeply humiliated
as I am feeling now, in consequence of the events of to-day. In the first
place, that I should have condescended to go down with you at all, and in
the second place, all that happened there. It has been such a day of
pettifogging—pitiful pettifogging. I have profaned and lowered myself by
taking a share in it all, and forgetting——Well, it’s done now. But look
here—you fell upon me to-day, unawares—upon a sick man. Oh, you needn’t
excuse yourself; at all events I shall certainly _not_ go there again. I
have not the slightest interest in so doing,” he concluded, with an air of
decision.

“No, really!” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, making no secret of his delight and
exultation.

Velchaninoff glanced contemptuously at him, and recommenced his march up
and down the room.

“You have determined to be happy under any circumstances, I suppose?” he
observed, after a pause. He could not resist making the remark
disdainfully.

“Yes, I have,” said Pavel, quietly.

“It’s no business of mine that he’s a fool and a knave, out of pure
idiocy!” thought Velchaninoff. “I can’t help hating him, though I feel
that he is not even worth hating.”

“I’m a permanent husband,” said Pavel Pavlovitch, with the most
exquisitely servile irony, at his own expense. “I remember you using that
expression, Alexey Ivanovitch, long ago, when you were with us at T——. I
remember many of your original phrases of that time, and when you spoke of
‘permanent husbands,’ the other day, I recollected the expression.”

At this point Mavra entered the room with a bottle of champagne and two
glasses.

“Forgive me, Alexey Ivanovitch,” said Pavel, “you know I can’t get on
without it. Don’t consider it an audacity on my part—think of it as a mere
bit of by-play unworthy your notice.”

“Well,” consented Velchaninoff, with a look of disgust, “but I must remind
you that I don’t feel well, and that—”

“One little moment—I’ll go at once, I really will—I _must_ just drink
_one_ glass, my throat is so——”

He seized the bottle eagerly, and poured himself out a glass, drank it
greedily at a gulp, and sat down. He looked at Velchaninoff almost
tenderly.

“What a nasty looking beast!” muttered the latter to himself.

“It’s all her friends that make her like that,” said Pavel, suddenly, with
animation.

“What? Oh, you refer to the lady. I——”

“And, besides, she is so very young still, you see,” resumed Pavel. “I
shall be her slave—she shall see a little society, and a bit of the world.
She will change, sir, entirely.”

“I mustn’t forget to give him back the bracelet, by-the-bye,” thought
Velchaninoff, frowning, as he felt for the case in his coat pocket.

“You said just now that I am determined to be happy, Alexey Ivanovitch,”
continued Pavel, confidentially, and with almost touching earnestness. “I
_must_ marry, else what will become of me? You see for yourself” (he
pointed to the bottle), “and that’s only a hundredth part of what I demean
myself to nowadays. I cannot get on without marrying again, sir; I _must_
have a new faith. If I can but believe in some one again, sir, I shall
rise—I shall be saved.”

“Why are you telling _me_ all this?” exclaimed Velchaninoff, very nearly
laughing in his face; it seemed so absurdly inconsistent.

“Look here,” he continued, roaring the words out, “let me know now, once
for all, why did you drag me down there? what good was I to do you there?”

“I—I wished to try——,” began Pavel, with some confusion.

“Try what?”

“The effect, sir. You see, Alexey Ivanovitch, I have only been visiting
there a week” (he grew more and more confused), “and yesterday, when I met
you, I thought to myself that I had never seen her yet in society; that
is, in the society of other _men_ besides myself—a stupid idea, I know it
is—I was very anxious to try—you know my wretchedly jealous nature.” He
suddenly raised his head and blushed violently.

“He _can’t_ be telling me the truth!” thought Velchaninoff; he was struck
dumb with surprise.

“Well, go on!” he muttered at last.

“Well, I see it was all her pretty childish nature, sir—that and her
friends together. You must forgive my stupid conduct towards yourself
to-day, Alexey Ivanovitch. I will never do it again—never again, sir, I
assure you!”

“I shall never be there to give you the opportunity,” replied Velchaninoff
with a laugh.

“That’s partly why I say it,” said Pavel.

“Oh, come! I’m not the only man in the world you know!” said the other
irritably.

“I am sorry to hear you say that, Alexey Ivanovitch. My esteem for Nadejda
is such that I——”

“Oh, forgive me, forgive me! I meant nothing, I assure you! Only it
surprises me that you should have expected so much of me—that you trusted
me so completely.”

“I trusted you entirely, sir, solely on account of—all that has passed.”

“So that you still consider me the most honourable of men?” Velchaninoff
paused, the naïve nature of his sudden question surprised even himself.

“I always did think you that, sir!” said Pavel, hanging his head.

“Of course, quite so—I didn’t mean quite that—I wanted to say, in spite of
all prejudices you may have formed, you——”

“Yes, in spite of all prejudices!”

“And when you first came to Petersburg?” asked Velchaninoff, who himself
felt the monstrosity of his own inquisitive questions, but could not
resist putting them.

“I considered you the most honourable of men when I first came to
Petersburg, sir; no less. I always respected you, Alexey Ivanovitch!”

Pavel Pavlovitch raised his eyes and looked at his companion without the
smallest trace of confusion.

Velchaninoff suddenly felt cowed and afraid. He was anxious that nothing
should result—nothing disagreeable—from this conversation, since he
himself was responsible for having initiated it.

“I loved you, Alexey Ivanovitch; all that year at T—— I loved you—you did
not observe it,” continued Pavel Pavlovitch, his voice trembling with
emotion, to the great discomfiture of his companion. “You did not observe
my affection, because I was too lowly a being to deserve any sort of
notice; but it was unnecessary that you should observe my love. Well, sir,
and all these nine years I have thought of you, for I have never known
such a year of life as that year was.” (Pavel’s eyes seemed to have a
special glare in them at this point.) “I remembered many of your sayings
and expressions, sir, and I thought of you always as a man imbued with the
loftiest sentiments, and gifted with knowledge and intellect, sir—of the
highest order—a man of grand ideas. ‘Great ideas do not proceed so
frequently from greatness of intellect, as from elevation of taste and
feeling.’ You yourself said that, sir, once. I dare say you have forgotten
the fact, but you did say it. Therefore I always thought of you, sir, as a
man of taste and feeling; consequently I concluded—consequently I trusted
you, in spite of everything.”

Pavel Pavlovitch’s chin suddenly began to tremble. Velchaninoff was
frightened out of his wits. This unexpected tone must be put an end to at
all hazards.

“Enough, Pavel Pavlovitch!” he said softly, blushing violently and with
some show of irritation. “And why—why (Velchaninoff suddenly began to
shout passionately)—why do you come hanging round the neck of a sick man,
a worried man—a man who is almost out of his wits with fever and annoyance
of all sorts, and drag him into this abyss of lies and mirage and vision
and shame—and unnatural, disproportionate, distorted nonsense! Yes, sir,
that’s the most shameful part of the whole business—the disproportionate
nonsense of what you say! You know it’s all humbug; both of us are mean
wretches—both of us; and if you like I’ll prove to you at once that not
only you don’t love me, but that you loathe and hate me with all your
heart, and that you are a liar, whether you know it or not! You took me
down to see your bride, not—not a bit in the world to try how she would
behave in the society of other men—absurd idea!—You simply saw me,
yesterday, and your vile impulse led you to carry me off there in order
that you might show me the girl, and say, as it were. There, look at that!
She’s to be mine! Try your hand _there_ if you can! It was nothing but
your challenge to me! You may not have known it, but this was so, as I
say; and you felt the impulse which I have described. Such a challenge
could not be made without hatred; consequently you hate me.”

Velchaninoff almost _rushed_ up and down the room as he shouted the above
words; and with every syllable the humiliating consciousness that he was
allowing himself to descend to the level of Pavel Pavlovitch afflicted him
and tormented him more and more!

“I was only anxious to be at peace with you, Alexey Ivanovitch!” said
Pavel sadly, his chin and lips working again.

Velchaninoff flew into a violent rage, as if he had been insulted in the
most unexampled manner.

“I tell you once more, sir,” he cried, “that you have attached yourself to
a sick and irritated man, in order that you may surprise him into saying
something unseemly in his madness! We are, I tell you, man, we are men of
different worlds. Understand me! between us two there is a grave,” he
hissed in his fury, and stopped.

“And how do you know,—sir,” cried Pavel Pavlovitch, his face suddenly
becoming all twisted, and deadly white to look at, as he strode up to
Velchaninoff, “how do you know what that grave means to me, sir, here!”
(He beat his breast with terrible earnestness, droll though he looked.)
“Yes, sir, we both stand on the brink of the grave, but on my side there
is more, sir, than on yours—yes, more, more, more!” he hissed, beating his
breast without pause—“more than on yours—the grave means more to me than
to you!”

But at this moment a loud ring at the bell brought both men to their
senses. Someone was ringing so loud that the bell-wire was in danger of
snapping.

“People don’t ring like that for me, observed Velchaninoff angrily.”

“No more they do for me, sir! I assure you they don’t!” said Pavel
Pavlovitch anxiously. He had become the quiet timid Pavel again in a
moment. Velchaninoff frowned and went to open the door.

“Mr. Velchaninoff, if I am not mistaken?” said a strange voice, apparently
belonging to some young and very self-satisfied person, at the door.

“What is it?”

“I have been informed that Mr. Trusotsky is at this moment in your rooms.
I must see him at once.”

Velchaninoff felt inclined to send this self-satisfied looking young
gentleman flying downstairs again; but he reflected—refrained, stood aside
and let him in.

“Here is Mr. Trusotsky. Come in.”

CHAPTER XIV.

A young fellow of some nineteen summers entered the room; he might have
been even younger, to judge by his handsome but self-satisfied and very
juvenile face.

He was not badly dressed, at all events his clothes fitted him well; in
stature he was a little above the middle height; he had thick black hair,
and dark, bold eyes—and these were the striking features of his face.
Unfortunately his nose was a little too broad and tip-tilted, otherwise he
would have been a really remarkably good-looking young fellow.—He came in
with some pretension.

“I believe I have the opportunity of speaking to Mr. Trusotsky?” he
observed deliberately, and bringing out the word opportunity with much
apparent satisfaction, as though he wished to accentuate the fact that he
could not possibly be supposed to feel either honour or pleasure in
meeting Mr. Trusotsky. Velchaninoff thought he knew what all this meant;
Pavel Pavlovitch seemed to have an inkling of the state of affairs, too.
His expression was one of anxiety, but he did not show the white feather.

“Not having the honour of your acquaintance,” he said with dignity, “I do
not understand what sort of business you can have with me.”

“Kindly listen to me first, and you can then let me know your ideas on the
subject,” observed the young gentleman, pulling out his tortoiseshell
glasses, and focusing the champagne bottle with them. Having deliberately
inspected that object, he put up his glasses again, and fixing his
attention once more upon Pavel Pavlovitch, remarked:

“Alexander Loboff.”

“What about Alexander Loboff?”

“That’s my name. You’ve not heard of me?”

“No.”

“H’m! Well, I don’t know when you should have, now I think of it; but I’ve
come on important business concerning yourself. I suppose I can sit down?
I’m tired.”

“Oh, pray sit down,” said Velchaninoff, but not before the young man had
taken a chair. In spite of the pain at his heart Velchaninoff could not
help being interested in this impudent youngling.

There seemed to be something in his good-looking, fresh young face that
reminded him of Nadia.

“You can sit down too,” observed Loboff, indicating an empty seat to Pavel
Pavlovitch, with a careless nod of his head.

“Thank you; I shall stand.”

“Very well, but you’ll soon get tired. You need not go away, I think, Mr.
Velchaninoff.”

“I have nowhere to go to, my good sir, I am at home.”

“As you like; I confess I should prefer your being present while I have an
explanation with this gentleman. Nadejda Fedosievna has given you a
flattering enough character, sir, to me.”

“Nonsense; how could she have had time to do so?”

“Immediately after you left. Now, Mr. Trusotsky, this is what I wish to
observe,” he continued to Pavel, the latter still standing in front of
him; “we, that is Nadejda Fedosievna and myself, have long loved one
another, and have plighted our troth. You have suddenly come between us as
an obstruction; I have come to tell you that you had better clear out of
the way at once. Are you prepared to adopt my suggestion?”

Pavel Pavlovitch took a step backward in amazement; his face paled
visibly, but in a moment a spiteful smile curled his lip.

“Not in the slightest degree prepared, sir,” he said, laconically.

“Dear me,” said the young fellow, settling himself comfortably in his
chair, and throwing one leg over the other.

“Indeed, I do not know whom I am speaking to,” added Pavel Pavlovitch, “so
that it can’t hardly be worth your while to continue.”

So saying he sat down at last.

“I _said_ you’d get tired,” remarked the youth. “I informed you just now,”
he added, “that my name is Alexander Loboff, and that Nadejda and I have
plighted our troth; consequently you cannot truthfully say, as you did say
just now, that you don’t know who I am, nor can you honestly assert that
you do not see what we can have to talk about. Not to speak of
myself—there is Nadejda Fedosievna to be considered—the lady to whom you
have so impudently attached yourself: that alone is matter sufficient for
explanation between us.”

All this the young fellow rattled off carelessly enough, as if the thing
were so self-evident that it hardly needed mentioning. While talking, he
raised his eye-glass once more, and inspected some object for an instant,
putting the glass back in his pocket immediately afterwards.

“Excuse me, young man,” began Pavel Pavlovitch: but the words “young man”
were fatal.

“At any other moment,” observed the youth, “I should of course forbid your
calling me ‘young man’ at once; but you must admit that in this case my
youth is my principal advantage over yourself, and that even this very day
you would have given anything—nay, at the moment when you presented your
bracelet—to be just a little bit younger.”

“Cheeky young brat!” muttered Velchaninoff.

“In any case,” began Pavel Pavlovitch, with dignity, “I do not consider
your reasons as set forth—most questionable and improper reasons at the
best—sufficient to justify the continuance of this conversation. I see
your ’business’ is mere childishness and nonsense: to-morrow I shall have
the pleasure of an explanation with Mr. Zachlebnikoff, my respected
friend. Meanwhile, sir, perhaps you will make it convenient to—depart.”

“That’s the sort of man he is,” cried the youth, hotly, turning to
Velchaninoff: “he is not content with being as good as kicked out of the
place, and having faces made at him, but he must go down again to-morrow
to carry tales about us to Mr. Zachlebnikoff. Do you not prove by this,
you obstinate man, that you wish to carry off the young lady by force?
that you desire to _buy_ her of people who preserve—thanks to the relics
of barbarism still triumphant among us—a species of power over her? Surely
she showed you sufficiently clearly that she _despises_ you? You have had
your wretched tasteless present of to-day—that bracelet thing—returned to
you; what more do you want?”

“Excuse me, no bracelet has been, or can be returned to me,” said Pavel
Pavlovitch, with a shudder of anxiety, however.

“How so? hasn’t Mr. Velchaninoff given it to you?”

“Oh, the deuce take you, sir,” thought Velchaninoff. “Nadejda Fedosievna
certainly did give me this case for you, Pavel Pavlovitch,” he said; “I
did not wish to take it, but she was anxious that I should: here it is,
I’m very sorry.”

He took out the case and laid it down on the table before the enraged
Pavel Pavlovitch.

“How is it you have not handed it to him before?” asked the young man
severely.

“I had no time, as you may conclude,” said Velchaninoff with a frown.

“H’m! Strange circumstance!”

“_What_, sir?”

“Well, you must admit it _is_ strange! However, I am quite prepared to
believe that there has been some mistake.”

Velchaninoff would have given worlds to get up and drub the impertinent
young rascal and drag him out of the house by the ear; but he could not
contain himself, and burst out laughing. The boy immediately followed suit
and laughed too.

But for Pavel Pavlovitch it was no laughing matter.

If Velchaninoff had seen the ferocious look which the former cast at him
at the moment when he and Loboff laughed, he would have realized that
Pavel Pavlovitch was in the act of passing a fatal limit of forbearance.
He did not see the look; but it struck him that it was only fair to stand
up for Pavel now.

“Listen, Mr. Loboff,” he said, in friendly tones, “not to enter into the
consideration of other matters, I may point out that Mr. Trusotsky brings
with him, in his wooing of Miss Zachlebnikoff, a name and circumstances
fully well-known to that esteemed family; in the second place, he brings a
fairly respectable position in the world; and thirdly, he brings wealth.
Therefore he may well be surprised to find himself confronted by such a
rival as yourself—a gentleman of great wealth, doubtless, but at the same
time so very young, that he could not possibly look upon you as a serious
rival; therefore, again, he is quite right in begging you to bring the
conversation to an end.”

“What do you mean by ‘so very young’? I was nineteen a month since; by the
law I might have been married long ago. That’s a sufficient answer to your
argument.”

“But what father would consent to allowing his daughter to marry you
_now_—even though you may be a Rothschild to come, or a benefactor to
humanity in the future. A man of nineteen years old is not capable of
answering for himself and yet you are ready to take on your own
responsibility another being—in other words, a being who is as much a
child as you are yourself. Why, it is hardly even honourable on your part,
is it? I have presumed to address you thus, because you yourself referred
the matter to me as a sort of arbiter between yourself and Pavel
Pavlovitch.”

“Yes, by-the-bye, ‘Pavel Pavlovitch,’ I forgot he was called that,”
remarked the youth. “I wonder why I thought of him all along as ‘Vassili
Petrovitch.’ Look here, sir (addressing Velchaninoff), you have not
surprised me in the least. I knew you were all tarred with one brush. It
is strange that you should have been described to me as a man of some
originality. However, to business. All that you have said is, of course,
utter nonsense; not only is there nothing ‘dishonourable’ about my
intentions, as you permitted yourself to suggest, but the fact of the
matter is entirely the reverse, as I hope to prove to you by-and-bye. In
the first place, we have promised each other marriage, besides which I
have given her my word that if she ever repents of her promise she shall
have her full liberty to throw me over. I have given her surety to that
effect before witnesses.”

“I bet anything your friend—what’s his name?—Predposiloff invented that
idea,” cried Velchaninoff.

“He-he-he!” giggled Pavel Pavlovitch contemptuously.

“What is that person giggling about? You are right, sir, it was
Predposiloff’s idea. But I don’t think you and I quite understand one
another, do we? and I had such a good report of you. How old are you? Are
you fifty yet?”

“Stick to business, if you please.”

“Forgive the liberty. I did not mean anything offensive. Well, to proceed.
I am no millionaire, and I am no great benefactor to humanity (to reply to
your arguments), but I shall manage to keep myself and my wife. Of course
I have nothing now; I was brought up, in fact, in their house from my
childhood.”

“How so?”

“Oh, because I am a distant relative of this Mr. Zachlebnikoff’s wife.
When my people died, he took me in and sent me to school. The old fellow
is really quite a kind-hearted man, if you only knew it.”

“I do know it!”

“Yes, he’s an old fogey rather, but a kind-hearted old fellow; but I left
him four months ago and began to keep myself. I first joined a railway
office at ten roubles a month, and am now in a notary’s place at
twenty-five. I made him a formal proposal for her a fortnight since. He
first laughed like mad, and afterwards fell into a violent rage, and Nadia
was locked up. She bore it heroically. He had been furious with me before
for throwing up a post in his department which he procured for me. You see
he is a good and kind old fellow at home, but get him in his office
and—oh, my word!—he’s a sort of _Jupiter Tonans_! I told him straight out
that I didn’t like his ways; but the great row was—thanks to the second
chief at the office; he said I insulted him, but I only told him he was an
ignorant beggar. So I threw them all up, and went in for the notary
business. Listen to that! What a clap! We shall have a thunder-storm
directly! What a good thing I arrived before the rain! I came here on
foot, you know, all the way, nearly at a run, too!”

“How in the world did you find an opportunity of speaking to Miss Nadia
then? especially since you are not allowed to meet.”

“Oh, one can always get over the railing; then there’s that red-haired
girl, she helps, and Maria Nikitishna—oh, but she’s a snake, that girl!
What’s the matter? Are you afraid of the thunder-storm?”

“No, I’m ill—seriously ill!”

Velchaninoff had risen from his seat with a fearful sudden pain in his
chest, and was trying to walk up and down the room.

“Oh, really! then I’m disturbing you. I shall go at once,” said the youth,
jumping up.

“No, you don’t disturb me!” said Velchaninoff ceremoniously.

“How not; of course I do, if you’ve got the stomach ache! Well now,
Vassili—what’s your name—Pavel Pavlovitch, let’s conclude this matter. I
will formulate my question for once into words which will adapt themselves
to your understanding: Are you prepared to renounce your claim to the hand
of Nadejda Fedosievna before her parents, and in my presence, with all due
formality?”

“No, sir; not in the slightest degree prepared,” said Pavel Pavlovitch
witheringly; “and allow me to say once more that all this is childish and
absurd, and that you had better clear out!”

“Take care,” said the youth, holding up a warning forefinger; “better give
it up now, for I warn you that otherwise you will spend a lot of money
down there, and take a lot of trouble; and when you come back in nine
months you will be turned out of the house by Nadejda Fedosievna herself;
and if you don’t go _then_, it will be the worse for you. Excuse me for
saying so, but at present you are like the dog in the manger. Think over
it, and be sensible for once in your life.”

“Spare me the moral, if you please,” began Pavel Pavlovitch furiously;
“and as for your low threats I shall take my measures to-morrow—_serious_
measures.”

“Low threats? pooh! You are low yourself to take them as such. Very well,
I’ll wait till to-morrow then; but if you—there’s the thunder again!—_au
revoir_—very glad to have met you, sir.” He nodded to Velchaninoff and
made off hurriedly, evidently anxious to reach home before the rain.

CHAPTER XV.

“You see, you see!” cried Pavel to Velchaninoff, the instant that the
young fellow’s back was turned.

“Yes; you are not going to succeed there,” said Velchaninoff. He would not
have been so abrupt and careless of Pavel’s feelings if it had not been
for the dreadful pain in his chest.

Pavel Pavlovitch shuddered as though from a sudden scald. “Well, sir, and
you—you were loth to give me back the bracelet, eh?”

“I hadn’t time.”

“Oh! you were sorry—you pitied me, as true friend pities friend!”

“Oh, well, I pitied you, then!” Velchaninoff was growing angrier every
moment. However, he informed Pavel Pavlovitch shortly as to how he had
received the bracelet, and how Nadia had almost forced it upon him.

“You must understand,” he added, “that otherwise I should never have
agreed to accept the commission; there are quite enough disagreeables
already.”

“You liked the job, and accepted it with pleasure,” giggled Pavel
Pavlovitch.

“That is foolish on your part; but I suppose you must be forgiven. You
must have seen from that boy’s behaviour that I play no part in this
matter. Others are the principal actors, not I!”

“At all events the job had attractions for you.” Pavel Pavlovitch sat down
and poured out a glass of wine.

“You think I shall knuckle under to that young gentleman? Pooh! I shall
drive him out to-morrow, sir, like dust. I’ll smoke this little gentleman
out of his nursery, sir; you see if I don’t.” He drank his wine off at a
gulp, and poured out some more. He seemed to grow freer as the moments
went by; he talked glibly now.

“Ha-ha! Sachinka and Nadienka!(2) darling little children. Ha-ha-ha!” He
was beside himself with fury.

At this moment, a terrific crash of thunder startled the silence, and was
followed by flashes of lightning and sheets of heavy rain. Pavel
Pavlovitch rose and shut the window.

“The fellow asked you if you were afraid of the thunder; do you remember?
Ha-ha-ha! Velchaninoff afraid of thunder! And all that about ‘fifty years
old’ wasn’t bad, eh? Ha-ha-ha!” Pavel Pavlovitch was in a spiteful mood.

“You seem to have settled yourself here,” said Velchaninoff, who could
hardly speak for agony. “Do as you like, I must lie down.”

“Come, you wouldn’t turn a _dog_ out to-night!” replied Pavel, glad of a
grievance.

“Of course, sit down; drink your wine—do anything you like,” murmured
Velchaninoff, as he laid himself flat on his divan, and groaned with pain.

“Am I to spend the night? Aren’t you afraid?”

“What of?” asked Velchaninoff, raising his head slightly.

“Oh, nothing. Only last time you seemed to be a little alarmed, that’s
all.”

“You are a fool!” said the other angrily, as he turned his face to the
wall.

“Very well, sir; all right,” said Pavel.

Velchaninoff fell asleep within a minute or so of lying down. The
unnatural strain of the day, and his sickly state of health together, had
suddenly undermined his strength, and he was as weak as a child. But
physical pain would have its own, and soon conquered weakness and sleep;
in an hour he was wide awake again, and rose from the divan in anguish.
Pavel Pavlovitch was asleep on the other sofa. He was dressed, and in his
boots; his hat lay on the floor, and his eye-glass hung by its cord almost
to the ground. Velchaninoff did not wake his guest. The room was full of
tobacco smoke, and the bottle was empty; he looked savagely at the
sleeping drunkard.

Having twisted himself painfully off his bed, Velchaninoff began to walk
about, groaning and thinking of his agony; he could lie no longer.

He was alarmed for this pain in his chest, and not without reason. He was
subject to these attacks, and had been so for many years; but they came
seldom, luckily—once a year or two years. On such occasions, his agony was
so dreadful for some ten hours or so that he invariably believed that he
must be actually dying.

This night, his anguish was terrible; it was too late to send for the
doctor, but it was far from morning yet. He staggered up and down the
room, and before long his groans became loud and frequent.

The noise awoke Pavel Pavlovitch. He sat up on his divan, and for some
time gazed in terror and perplexity upon Velchaninoff, as the latter
walked moaning up and down. At last he gathered his senses, and enquired
anxiously what was the matter.

Velchaninoff muttered something unintelligible.

“It’s your kidneys—I’m sure it is,” cried Pavel, very wide awake of a
sudden. “I remember Peter Kuzmich used to have the same sort of attacks.
The kidneys—why, one can die of it. Let me go and fetch Mavra.”

“No, no; I don’t want anything,” muttered Velchaninoff, waving him off
irritably.

But Pavel Pavlovitch—goodness knows why—was beside himself with anxiety;
he was as much exercised as though the matter at issue were the saving of
his own son’s life. He insisted on immediate compresses, and told
Velchaninoff he must drink two or three cups of very hot weak tea—boiling
hot. He ran for Mavra, lighted the fire in the kitchen, put the kettle on,
put the sick man back to bed, covered him up, and within twenty minutes
had the first hot application all ready, as well as the tea.

“Hot plates, sir, hot plates,” he cried, as he clapped the first, wrapped
in a napkin, on to Velchaninoff’s chest. “I have nothing else handy; but I
give you my word it’s as good as anything else. Drink this tea quick,
never mind if you scald your tongue—life is dearer. You can die of this
sort of thing, you know.” He sent sleepy Mavra out of her wits with
flurry; the plates were changed every couple of minutes. At the third
application, and after having taken two cups of scalding tea, Velchaninoff
suddenly felt decidedly better.

“Capital! thank God! if we can once get the better of the pain it’s a good
sign!” cried Pavel, delightedly, and away he ran for another plate and
some more tea.

“If only we can beat the pain down!” he kept muttering to himself every
minute.

In half an hour the agony was passed, but the sick man was so completely
knocked up that, in spite of Pavel’s repeated entreaties to be allowed to
apply “just one more plate,” he could bear no more. His eyes were drooping
from weakness.

“Sleep—sleep,” he muttered faintly.

“Very well,” consented Pavel, “go to sleep.”

“Are you spending the night here? What time is it?”

“Nearly two.”

“You must sleep here.”

“Yes, yes—all right. I will.”

A moment after the sick man called to Pavel again.

“You—you—” muttered the former faintly, as Pavel ran up and bent over him,
“you are better than I am. I understand all—all—thank you!”

“Go to sleep!” whispered Pavel Pavlovitch, as he crept back to his divan
on tip-toes.

Velchaninoff, dozing off, heard Pavel quietly make his bed, undress and
lie down, all very softly, and then put the light out.

Undoubtedly Velchaninoff fell asleep very quietly when the light was once
out; he remembered that much afterwards. Yet all the while he was asleep,
and until he awoke, he dreamed that he could not go to sleep in spite of
his weakness. At length he dreamed that he was delirious, and that he
could not for the life of him chase away the visions which crowded in upon
him, although he was conscious the whole while they _were_ but visions and
not reality. The apparition was familiar to him. He thought that his front
door was open, and that his room gradually filled with people pouring in.
At the table in the middle of the room, sat one man exactly as had been
the case a month before, during one of his dreams. As on the previous
occasion, this man leant on his elbow at the table and would not speak; he
was in a round hat with a crape band.

“How?” thought the dreamer. “Was it really Pavel Pavlovitch last time as
well?” However, when he looked at the man’s face, he was convinced that it
was quite another person.

“Why has he a crape band, then?” thought Velchaninoff in perplexity.

The noise and chattering of all these people was dreadful; they seemed
even more exasperated with Velchaninoff than on the former occasion. They
were all threatening him with something or other, shaking their fists at
him, and shouting something which he could not understand.

“It’s all a vision,” he dreamed, “I know quite well that I am up and
about, because I could not lie still for anguish!”

Yet the cries and noise at times seemed so real that he was now and again
half-convinced of their reality.

“Surely this _can’t_ be delirium!” he thought. “What on earth do all these
people want of me—my God!”

Yet if it were not a vision, surely all these cries would have roused
Pavel Pavlovitch? There he was, fast asleep in his divan!

Then something suddenly occurred as in the old dream. Another crowd of
people surged in, crushing those who were already collected inside. These
new arrivals carried something large and heavy; he could judge of the
weight by their footsteps labouring upstairs.

Those in the room cried, “They’re bringing it! they’re bringing it!”

Every eye flashed as it turned and glared at Velchaninoff; every hand
threatened him and then pointed to the stairs.

Undoubtedly it was reality, not delirium. Velchaninoff thought that he
stood up and raised himself on tip-toes, in order to see over the heads of
the crowd. He wanted to know what was being carried in.

His heart beat wildly, wildly, wildly; and suddenly, as in his former
dream, there came one—two—three loud rings at the bell.

And again, the sound of the bell was so distinct and clear that he felt it
_could_ not be a dream. He gave a cry, and awoke; but he did not rush to
the door as on the former occasion.

What sudden idea was it that guided his movements? Had he any idea at all,
or was it impulse that prompted him what to do? He sprang up in bed, with
arms outstretched, as though to ward off an attack, straight towards the
divan where Pavel Pavlovitch was sleeping.

His hands encountered other hands outstretched in his direction;
consequently some one must have been standing over him.

The curtains were drawn, but it was not absolutely dark, because a faint
light came from the next room, which had no curtains.

Suddenly something cut the palm of his left hand, some of his fingers
causing him sharp pain. He instantly realized that he had seized a knife
or a razor, and he closed his hand upon it with the rapidity of thought.

At that moment something fell to the ground with a hard metallic sound.

Velchaninoff was probably three times as strong as Pavel Pavlovitch, but
the struggle lasted for a long while—at least three minutes.

The former, however, forced his adversary to the earth, and bent his arms
back behind his head; then he paused, for he was most anxious to tie the
hands. Holding the assassin’s wrist with his wounded left hand, he felt
for the blind cord with his right. For a long while he could not find it;
at last he grasped it, and tore it down.

He was amazed afterwards at the unnatural strength which he must have
displayed during all this.

During the whole of the struggle neither man spoke a word; only their
heavy breathing was audible, and the inarticulate sounds emitted by both
as they fought.

At length, having secured his opponent’s hands, Velchaninoff left him on
the ground, rose, drew the curtains, and pulled up the blind.

The deserted street was light now. He opened the window, and stood
breathing in the fresh air for a few moments. It was a little past four
o’clock. He shut the window once more, fetched a towel and bound up his
cut hand as tightly as he could to stop the flow of blood.

At his feet he caught sight of the opened razor lying on the carpet; he
picked it up, wiped it, and put it by in its own case, which he now saw he
had left upon the little cupboard beside the divan which Pavel Pavlovitch
occupied. He locked the cupboard.

Having completed all these arrangements, he approached Pavel Pavlovitch
and looked at him. Meanwhile the latter had managed to raise himself from
the floor and reach a chair; he was now sitting in it—undressed to his
shirt, which was stained with marks of blood both back and
front—Velchaninoff’s blood, not his own.

Of course this was Pavel Pavlovitch; but it would have been only natural
for any one who had known him before, and saw him at this moment, to doubt
his identity. He sat upright in his chair—very stiffly, owing to the
uncomfortable position of his tightly bound hands behind his back; his
face looked yellow and crooked, and he shuddered every other moment. He
gazed intently, but with an expression of dazed perplexity, at
Velchaninoff.

Suddenly he smiled gravely, and nodding towards a carafe of water on the
table, muttered, “A little drop!” Velchaninoff poured some into a glass,
and held it for him to drink.

Pavel gulped a couple of mouthfuls greedily—then suddenly raised his head
and gazed intently at Velchaninoff standing over him; he said nothing,
however, but finished the water. He then sighed deeply.

Velchaninoff took his pillows and some of his clothing, and went into the
next room, locking Pavel Pavlovitch behind him.

His pain had quite disappeared, but he felt very weak after the strain of
his late exertion. Goodness knows whence came his strength for the trial;
he tried to think, but he could not collect his ideas, the shock had been
too great.

His eyes would droop now and again, sometimes for ten minutes at a time;
then he would shudder, wake up, remember all that had passed and raise the
blood-stained rag bound about his hand to prove the reality of his
thoughts; then he would relapse into eager, feverish thought. One thing
was quite certain, Pavel Pavlovitch had intended to cut his throat,
though, perhaps, a quarter of an hour before the fatal moment he had not
known that he would make the attempt. Perhaps he had seen the razor case
last evening, and thought nothing of it, only remembering the fact that it
was there. The razors were usually locked up, and only yesterday
Velchaninoff had taken one out in order to make himself neat for his visit
to the country, and had omitted to lock it up again.

“If he had premeditated murdering me, he would certainly have provided
himself with a knife or a pistol long ago; he could not have relied on my
razors, which he never saw until yesterday,” concluded Velchaninoff.

At last the clock struck six. Velchaninoff arose, dressed himself, and
went into Pavel Pavlovitch’s room. As he opened the door he wondered why
he had ever locked it, and why he had not allowed Pavel to go away at
once.

To his surprise the prisoner was dressed, he had doubtless found means to
get his hands loose. He was sitting in an arm-chair, but rose when
Velchaninoff entered. His hat was in his hand.

His anxious look seemed to say as plain as words:—

“Don’t talk to me! It’s no use talking—don’t talk to me!”

“Go!” said Velchaninoff. “Take your jewel-case!” he added.

Pavel Pavlovitch turned back and seized his bracelet-case, stuffing it
into his pocket, and went out.

Velchaninoff stood in the hall, waiting to shut the front door after him.

Their looks met for the last time. Pavel Pavlovitch stopped, and the two
men gazed into each others eyes for five seconds or so, as though in
indecision. At length Velchaninoff faintly waved him away with his hand.

“Go!” he said, only half aloud, as he closed the door and turned the key.

CHAPTER XVI.

A feeling of immense happiness took possession of Velchaninoff; something
was finished, and done with, and settled. Some huge anxiety was at an end,
so it seemed to him. This anxiety had lasted five weeks.

He raised his hand and looked at the blood-stained rag bound about it.

“Oh, yes!” he thought, “it is, indeed, all over now.”

And all this morning—the first time for many a day, he did not even once
think of Liza; just as if the blood from those cut fingers had wiped out
that grief as well, and made him “quits” with it.

He quite realized how terrible was the danger which he had passed through.

“For those people,” he thought, “who do not know a minute or two
before-hand that they are going to murder you, when they once get the
knife into their hands, and feel the first touch of warm blood—Good
Heaven! they not only cut your throat, they hack your head off
afterwards—right off!”

Velchaninoff could not sit at home, he _must_ go out and let something
happen to him, and he walked about in hopes of something turning up; he
longed to _talk_, and it struck him that he might fairly go to the doctor
and talk to him, and have his hand properly bound up.

The doctor inquired how he hurt his hand, which made Velchaninoff laugh
like mad; he was on the point of telling all, but refrained. Several times
during the day he was on the point of telling others the whole story. Once
it was to a perfect stranger in a restaurant, with whom he had begun to
converse on his own initiative. Before this day he had hated the very idea
of speaking to strangers in the public restaurants.

He went into a shop and ordered some new clothes, not with the idea of
visiting the Pogoryeltseffs however—the thought of any such visit was
distasteful to him; besides he could not leave town, he felt that he must
stay and see what was going to happen.

Velchaninoff dined and enjoyed his dinner, talking affably to his
neighbour and to the waiter as well. When evening fell he went home, his
head was whirling a little, and he felt slightly delirious; the first
sight of his rooms gave him quite a start. He walked round them and
reflected. He visited the kitchen, which he had hardly ever done before in
his life, and thought, “This is where they heated the plates last night.”
He locked the doors carefully, and lit his candles earlier than usual. As
he shut the door he remembered that he had asked Mavra, as he passed the
dvornik’s lodging, whether Pavel Pavlovitch had been. Just as if the
latter could possibly have been near the place!

Having then carefully locked himself in, he opened the little cupboard
where his razors were kept, and took out “the” razor. There was still some
of the blood on the bone handle. He put the razor back again, and locked
the cupboard.

He was sleepy; he felt that he must go to sleep as speedily as possible,
otherwise he would be useless “for to-morrow,” and to-morrow seemed to him
for some reason or other to be about to be a fateful day for him.

But all those thoughts which had crowded in upon him all day, and had
never left him for a moment, were still in full swing within his brain; he
thought, and thought, and thought, and could not fall asleep.

If Pavel Pavlovitch arrived at murdering point accidentally, had he ever
seriously thought of murder even for a single evil instant before?
Velchaninoff decided the question strangely enough: Pavel Pavlovitch _had_
the desire to murder him, but did not himself know of the existence of
this desire.

“It seems an absurd conclusion; but so it is!” thought Velchaninoff.

Pavel Pavlovitch did not come to Petersburg to look out for a new
appointment, nor did he come for the sake of finding Bagantoff, in spite
of his rage when the latter died. No! he despised Bagantoff thoroughly.
Pavel Pavlovitch had come to St. Petersburg for _him_, and had brought
Liza with him, for him alone, Velchaninoff.

“Did _I_ expect to have my throat cut?” Velchaninoff decided that he _had_
expected it, from the moment when he saw Pavel Pavlovitch in the carriage
following in Bagantoff’s funeral procession. “That is I expected
something—of course, not exactly to have my throat cut! And surely—surely,
it was not all _bonâ fide_ yesterday,” he reflected, raising his head from
the pillow in the excitement of the idea. “_Surely_ it cannot have been
all in good faith that that fellow assured me of his love for me, beating
his breast, and with his under lip trembling, as he spoke!

“Yes, it was absolutely _bonâ fide_!” he decided. “This quasimodo of T——
was quite good enough and generous enough to fall in love with his wife’s
lover—his wife in whom he never observed ’anything’ during the twenty
years of their married life.

“He respected and loved me for nine years, and remembered both me and my
sayings. My goodness, to think of that! and I knew nothing whatever of all
this! Oh, no! he was not lying yesterday! But did he love me _while_ he
declared his love for me, and said that we must be ‘quits!’ Yes, he did,
he loved me spitefully—and spiteful love is sometimes the strongest of
all.

“I daresay I made a colossal impression upon him down at T——, for it is
just upon such Schiller-like men that one is liable to make a colossal
impression. He exaggerated my value a thousand fold; perhaps it was my
‘philosophical retirement’ that struck him! It would be curious to
discover precisely what it was that made so great an impression upon him.
Who knows, it may have been that I wore a good pair of gloves, and knew
how to put them on. These quasimodo fellows love æstheticism to
distraction! Give them a start in the direction of admiration for
yourself, and they will do all the rest, and give you a thousand times
more than your due of every virtue that exists; will fight to the death
for you with pleasure, if you ask it of them. How high he must have held
my aptitude for illusionizing others; perhaps that has struck him as much
as anything else! for he remarked: ‘If _this_ man deceived me, whom am I
ever to trust again!’

“After such a cry as that a man may well turn wild beast.

“And he came here to ’embrace and weep over me,’ as he expressed it. H’m!
that means he came to cut my throat, and _thought_ that he came to embrace
and weep over me. He brought Liza with him, too.

“What if I _had_ wept with him and embraced him? Perhaps he really would
have fully and entirely forgiven me—for he was yearning to forgive me, I
could see that! And all this turned to drunkenness and bestiality at the
first check. Yes, Pavel Pavlovitch, the most deformed of all deformities
is the abortion with noble feelings. And this man was foolish enough to
take me down to see his ‘bride.’ My goodness! his bride! Only such a
lunatic of a fellow could ever have developed so wild an idea as a ‘new
existence’ to be inaugurated by an alliance between himself and Nadia. But
you are not to blame, Pavel Pavlovitch, you are a deformity, and all your
ideas and actions and aspirations must of necessity be deformed. But
deformity though he be, why in the world was _my_ sanction, _my_ blessing,
as it were, necessary to his union with Miss Zachlebnikoff? Perhaps he
sincerely hoped that there, with so much sweet innocence and charm around
us, we should fall into each other’s arms in some leafy spot, and weep out
our differences on each other’s shoulders?

“Was _murder_ in his thoughts when I caught him standing between our beds
that first time, in the darkness? No. I think not. And yet the first idea
of it may have entered his soul as he stood there—And if I had not left
the razors out, probably nothing would have happened. Surely that is so;
for he avoided me for weeks—he was _sorry_ for me, and avoided me. He
chose Bagantoff to expend his wrath upon, first, not me! He jumped out of
bed and fussed over the hot plates, to divert his mind from murder
perhaps—from the knife to charity! Perhaps he tried to save both himself
and me by his hot plates!”

So mused Velchaninoff, his poor overwrought brain working on and on, and
jumping from conclusion to conclusion with the endless activity of fever,
until he fell asleep. Next morning he awoke with no less tired brain and
body, but with a new terror, an unexpected and novel feeling of dread
hanging over him.

This dread consisted in the fact that he felt that he, Velchaninoff, must
go and see Pavel Pavlovitch that very day; he knew not why he must go, but
he felt drawn to go, as though by some unseen force. The idea was too
loathsome to look into, so he left it to take care of itself as an
unalterable fact. The madness of it, however, was modified, and the whole
aspect of the thought became more reasonable, after a while, when it took
shape and resolved itself into a conviction in Velchaninoff’s mind that
Pavel Pavlovitch had returned home, locked himself up, and hung himself to
the bedpost, as Maria Sisevna had described of the wretched suicide
witnessed by poor Liza.

“Why should the fool hang himself?” he repeated over and over again; yet
the thought _would_ return that he was bound to hang himself, as Liza had
said that he threatened to do. Velchaninoff could not help adding that if
he were in Pavel Pavlovitch’s place he would probably do the same.

So the end of it was that instead of going out to his dinner, he set off
for Pavel Pavlovitch’s lodging, “just to ask Maria Sisevna after him.” But
before he had reached the street he paused and his face flushed up with
shame. “Surely I am not going there to embrace and weep over him! Surely I
am not going to add this one last pitiful folly to the long list of my
late shameful actions!”

However, his good providence saved him from this “pitiful folly,” for he
had hardly passed through the large gateway into the street, when
Alexander Loboff suddenly collided with him. The young fellow was dashing
along in a state of great excitement.

“I was just coming to you. Our friend Pavel Pavlovitch—a nice sort of
fellow he is——”

“Has he hung himself?” gasped Velchaninoff.

“Hung himself? Who? Why?” asked Loboff, with his eyes starting out of his
head.

“Oh! go on, I meant nothing!”

“Tfu! What a funny line your thoughts seem to take. He hasn’t hung himself
a bit—why in the world should he?—on the contrary, he’s gone away. I’ve
just seen him off! My goodness, how that fellow can drink! We had three
bottles of wine. Predposiloff was there too—but how the fellow drinks!
Good heavens! he was singing in the carriage when the train went off! He
thought of you, and kissed his hand to you, and sent his love. He’s a
scamp, that fellow, eh?”

Young Loboff had apparently had quite his share of the three bottles, his
face was flushed and his utterance thick. Velchaninoff roared with
laughter.

“So you ended up by weeping over each others shoulders, did you? Ha-ha-ha!
Oh, you poetical, Schiller-ish, funny fellows, you!”

“Don’t scold us. You must know he went down _there_ yesterday and to-day,
and he has withdrawn. He ‘sneaked’ like anything about Nadia and me.
They’ve shut her up. There was such a row, but we wouldn’t give way—and,
my word, how the fellow drinks! He was always talking about you; but, of
course, he is no companion for you. You are, more or less, a respectable
sort of man, and must have belonged to society at some time of your life,
though you seem to have retired into private life just now. Is it poverty,
or what? I couldn’t make head or tail of Pavel Pavlovitch’s story.”

“Oh! Then it was he who gave you those interesting details about me?”

“Yes; don’t be cross about it. It’s better to be a citizen than ‘a swell’
any-day! The thing is one does not know whom to respect in Russia
nowadays! Don’t you think it a diseased feature of the times, in Russia,
that one doesn’t know whom to respect?”

“Quite so, quite so. Well, go on about Pavel Pavlovitch——”

“Well, he sat down in the railway carriage and began singing, then he
cried a bit. It was really disgusting to see the fellow. I hate fools!
Then he began to throw money to beggars ‘for the repose of Liza’s soul,’
he said. Is that his wife?”

“Daughter.”

“What’s the matter with your hand?”

“I cut it.”

“H’m! Never mind, cheer up! It’ll be all right soon! I am glad that fellow
has gone, you know,—confound him! But I bet anything he’ll marry as soon
as he arrives at his place.”

“Well, what of that? You are going to marry, too!”

“I! That’s quite a different affair! What a funny man you are! Why, if
_you_ are fifty, he must be sixty! Well, ta-ta! Glad I met you—can’t come
in—don’t ask me—no time!”

He started off at a run, but turned a minute after and came back.

“What a fool I am!” he cried, “I forgot all about it—he sent you a letter.
Here it is. How was it you didn’t see him off? Ta-ta!”

Velchaninoff returned home and opened the letter, which was sealed and
addressed to himself.

There was not a syllable inside in Pavel Pavlovitch’s own hand writing;
but he drew out another letter, and knew the writing at once. It was an
old, faded, yellow-looking sheet of paper, and the ink was faint and
discoloured; the letter was addressed to Velchaninoff, and written ten
years before—a couple of months after his departure from T——. He had never
received a copy of this one, but another letter, which he well remembered,
had evidently been written and sent instead of it; he could tell that by
the substance of the faded document in his hand. In this present letter
Natalia Vasilievna bade farewell to him for ever (as she had done in the
other communication), and informed him that she expected her confinement
in a few months. She added, for his consolation, that she would find an
opportunity of purveying his child to him in good time, and pointed out
that their friendship was now cemented for ever. She begged him to love
her no longer, because she could no longer return his love, but authorized
him to pay a visit to T—— after a year’s absence, in order to see the
child. Goodness only knows why she had not sent this letter, but had
changed it for another!

Velchaninoff was deadly pale when he read this document; but he imagined
Pavel Pavlovitch finding it in the family box of black wood with
mother-of-pearl ornamentation and silver mounting, and reading it for the
first time!

“I should think he, too, grew as pale as a corpse,” he reflected, catching
sight of his own face in the looking-glass. “Perhaps he read it and then
closed his eyes and hoped and prayed that when he opened them again the
dreadful letter would be nothing but a sheet of white paper once more!
Perhaps the poor fellow tried this desperate expedient two or three times
before he accepted the truth!”

CHAPTER XVII.

                          THE PERMANENT HUSBAND.

Two years have elapsed since the events recorded in the foregoing
chapters, and we find our friend Velchaninoff, one lovely summer day,
seated in a railway carriage on his way to Odessa; he was making the
journey for the purpose of seeing a great friend, and of being introduced
to a lady whose acquaintance he had long wished to make.

Without entering into any details, we may remark that Velchaninoff was
entirely changed during these last two years. He was no longer the
miserable, fanciful hypochondriac of those dark days. He had returned to
society and to his friends, who gladly forgave him his temporary relapse
into seclusion. Even those whom he had ceased to bow to, when met, were
now among the first to extend the hand of friendship once more, and asked
no questions—just as though he had been abroad on private business, which
was no affair of theirs.

His success in the legal matters of which we have heard, and the fact of
having his sixty thousand roubles safe at his bankers—enough to keep him
all his life—was the elixir which brought him back to health and spirits.
His premature wrinkles departed, his eyes grew brighter, and his
complexion better; he became more active and vigorous—in fact, as he sat
thinking in a comfortable first-class carriage, he looked a very different
man from the Velchaninoff of two years ago.

The next station to be reached was that at which passengers were expected
to dine, forty minutes being allowed for this purpose.

It so happened that Velchaninoff, while seated at the dinner table, was
able to do a service to a lady who was also dining there. This lady was
young and nice looking, though rather too flashily dressed, and was
accompanied by a young officer who unfortunately was scarcely in a
befitting condition for ladies’ society, having refreshed himself at the
bar to an unnecessary extent. This young man succeeded in quarrelling with
another person equally unfit for ladies’ society, and a brawl ensued,
which threatened to land both parties upon the table in close proximity to
the lady. Velchaninoff interfered, and removed the brawlers to a safe
distance, to the great and almost boundless gratitude of the alarmed lady,
who hailed him as her “guardian angel.” Velchaninoff was interested in the
young woman, who looked like a respectable provincial lady—of provincial
manners and taste, as her dress and gestures showed.

A conversation was opened, and the lady immediately commenced to lament
that her husband was “never by when he was wanted,” and that he had now
gone and hidden himself somewhere just because he happened to be required.

“Poor fellow, he’ll catch it for this,” thought Velchaninoff. “If you will
tell me your husband’s name,” he added aloud, “I will find him, with
pleasure.”

“Pavel Pavlovitch,” hiccupped the young officer.

“Your husband’s name is Pavel Pavlovitch, is it?” inquired Velchaninoff
with curiosity, and at the same moment a familiar bald head was interposed
between the lady and himself.

“Here you are _at last_,” cried the wife, hysterically.

It was indeed Pavel Pavlovitch.

He gazed in amazement and dread at Velchaninoff, falling back before him
just as though he saw a ghost. So great was his consternation, that for
some time it was clear that he did not understand a single word of what
his wife was telling him—which was that Velchaninoff had acted as her
guardian angel, and that he (Pavel) ought to be ashamed of himself for
never being at hand when he was wanted.

At last Pavel Pavlovitch shuddered, and woke up to consciousness.

Velchaninoff suddenly burst out laughing. “Why, we are old friends”—he
cried, “friends from childhood!” He clapped his hand familiarly and
encouragingly on Pavel’s shoulder. Pavel smiled wanly. “Hasn’t he ever
spoken to you of Velchaninoff?”

“No, never,” said the wife, a little confused.

“Then introduce me to your wife, you faithless friend!”

“This—this is Mr. Velchaninoff!” muttered Pavel Pavlovitch, looking the
picture of confusion.

All went swimmingly after this. Pavel Pavlovitch was despatched to cater
for the party, while his lady informed Velchaninoff that they were on
their way from O——, where Pavel Pavlovitch served, to their country
place—a lovely house, she said, some twenty-five miles away. There they
hoped to receive a party of friends, and if Mr. Velchaninoff would be so
very kind as to take pity on their rustic home, and honour it with a
visit, she should do her best to show her gratitude to the guardian angel
who, etc., etc. Velchaninoff replied that he would be delighted; and that
he was an idle man, and always free—adding a compliment or two which
caused the fair lady to blush with delight, and to tell Pavel Pavlovitch,
who now returned from his quest, that Alexey Ivanovitch had been so kind
as to promise to pay them a visit next week, and stay a whole month.

Pavel Pavlovitch, to the amazed wrath of his wife, smiled a sickly smile,
and said nothing.

After dinner the party bade farewell to Velchaninoff, and returned to
their carriage, while the latter walked up and down the platform smoking
his cigar; he knew that Pavel Pavlovitch would return to talk to him.

So it turned out. Pavel came up with an expression of the most anxious and
harassed misery. Velchaninoff smiled, took his arm, led him to a seat, and
sat down beside him. He did not say anything, for he was anxious that
Pavel should make the first move.

“So you are coming to us?” murmured the latter at last, plunging _in
medias res_.

“I knew you’d begin like that! you haven’t changed an atom!” cried
Velchaninoff, roaring with laughter, and slapping him confidentially on
the back. “Surely, you don’t really suppose that I ever had the smallest
intention of visiting you—and staying a month too!”

Pavel Pavlovitch gave a start.

“Then you’re _not_ coming?” he cried, without an attempt to hide his joy.

“No, no! of course not!” replied Velchaninoff, laughing. He did not know
why, but all this was exquisitely droll to him; and the further it went
the funnier it seemed.

“Really—are you really serious?” cried Pavel, jumping up.

“Yes; I tell you, I won’t come—not for the world!”

“But what will my wife say now? She thinks you intend to come!”

“Oh, tell her I’ve broken my leg—or anything you like!”

“She won’t believe!” said Pavel, looking anxious.

“Ha-ha-ha! You catch it at home, I see! Tell me, who is that young
officer?”

“Oh, a distant relative of mine—an unfortunate young fellow——”

“Pavel Pavlovitch!” cried a voice from the carriage, “the second bell has
rung!”

Pavel was about to move off—Velchaninoff stopped him.

“Shall I go and tell your wife how you tried to cut my throat?” he said.

“What are you thinking of—God forbid!” cried Pavel, in a terrible fright.

“Well, go along, then!” said the other, loosing his hold of Pavel’s
shoulder.

“Then—then—you won’t come, will you?” said Pavel once more, timidly and
despairingly, and clasping his hands in entreaty.

“No—I won’t—I swear!—run away—you’ll be late!” He put out his hand
mechanically, then recollected himself, and shuddered. Pavel did not take
the proffered hand, he withdrew his own.

The third bell rang.

An instantaneous but total change seemed to have come over both. Something
snapped within Velchaninoff’s heart—so it seemed to him, and he who had
been roaring with laughter a moment before, seized Pavel Pavlovitch
angrily by the shoulder.

“If I—_I_ offer you my hand, sir” (he showed the scar on the palm of his
left hand)—“if _I_ can offer you my hand, sir, I should think _you_ might
accept it!” he hissed with white and trembling lips.

Pavel Pavlovitch grew deadly white also, his lips quivered and a
convulsion seemed to run through his features:

“And—Liza?” he whispered quickly. Suddenly his whole face worked, and
tears started to his eyes.

Velchaninoff stood like a log before him.

“Pavel Pavlovitch! Pavel Pavlovitch!” shrieked the voice from the
carriage, in despairing accents, as though some one were being murdered.

Pavel roused himself and started to run. At that moment the engine
whistled, and the train moved off. Pavel Pavlovitch just managed to cling
on, and so climb into his carriage, as it moved out of the station.

Velchaninoff waited for another train, and then continued his journey to
Odessa.

                                 THE END.

                  ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

          PRINTED BY CHAS. STRAKER AND SONS, LONDON AND REDHILL.

                  ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

                  Masterpieces of Modern French Fiction.

*MADEMOISELLE DE MAUPIN.* By THEOPHILE GAUTIER. With 17 High-class
Etchings. Price 10s. 6d., elegantly bound.

    “The goldenbook of spirit and sense, the Holy Writ of beauty.”—_A.
    C. Swinburne_

*RENEE MAUPERIN.* By EDMOND and JULES DE GONCOURT. With Page Illustrations
by JAMES TISSOT. Price 6s., handsomely bound.

    “One of the most pathetic romances of our day. Running through
    almost the whole gamut of human passion, it has the alternatives
    of sunshine and shade that exist in real life.”—_Morning Post._

*GERMINIE LACERTEUX.* By EDMOND and JULES DE GONCOURT. Illustrated with
Highly-finished Etchings. Price 6s., handsomely bound.

    “For myself, I can say that I could not lay the book down for a
    moment until I had finished it.”—Letters on Books in _Truth_.

*A LOVE CRIME.* By PAUL BOURGET. Price 3s. 6d. Uniform with “A Cruel
Enigma.”

    “Who could take up such books, by the way admirably translated,
    and not be simply and absolutely spell-bound?”—_Truth._

*A CRUEL ENIGMA.* By PAUL BOURGET. In tasteful binding. Price 3s. 6d.

    “M. Bourget’s most remarkable work, ‘A Cruel Enigma,’ has placed
    him above all competitors.”—_Athenæum._

*FANNY.* By ERNEST FEYDEAU. A Famous French Novel. In tasteful binding.
Price 3s. 6d.

*MY UNCLE BARBASSOU.* By MARIO UCHARD. With 40 charming Etchings by PAUL
AVRIL. Price 15s.

*THE BOHEMIANS OF THE LATIN QUARTER* (Scenes de la Vie de Bohéme). By
HENRI MURGER. In demy 8vo. Illustrated with 10 full-page Etchings by C.
COURTRY from designs by MONTADER. Price 7s. 6d.

    “Illustrations and text are equally charming.”—_Scotsman._

*THE EMOTIONS OF POLYDORE MARASQUIN.* By LEON GOZLAN. With upwards of 100
Illustrations. Price 3s. 6d.

    “There is a deep fund of genuine humour and brilliant imagination
    in M. Gozlan’s book.”—_Morning Post._

*MADAME BOVARY: Provincial Manners.* By GUSTAVE FLAUBERT. Illustrated with
Etchings by French Artists. Price 6s., elegantly bound.

    “ ‘Madame Bovary’ grips your very vitals with an invincible power,
    like some scene you have really witnessed, some event which is
    actually happening before your eyes.”—_Emile Zola._

*SALAMBO.* By GUSTAVE FLAUBERT. With Six Etchings by Pierre Vidal and a
Portrait of the Author from a Drawing by Flaubert’s Niece. Price 6s.

    “The Translator has thoroughly understood the original, and has
    succeeded in putting it into good English. The type, paper, and
    material execution of the volume, inside and out, leave nothing to
    be desired.”—_Westminster Review._

*PAPA, MAMMA, and BABY.* By GUSTAVE DROZ. Illustrated with 16 page
Engravings. Price 3/6, attractively bound.

    “The exquisite lightness, brightness, and daintiness of M. Droz’s
    pencil.”—_Truth._

    “The lover who is a husband and the wife who is in love with the
    man she has married have never before been so attractively
    portrayed.”—_Pictorial World._

*SAPPHO: Parisian Manners.* By ALPHONSE DAUDET. With 32 highly-finished
page Engravings, cloth gilt, price 3/6.

    “The book is full of appalling realism. The characters painted by
    the author are singularly striking, vivid, and as true to nature
    as they are powerfully drawn”—_Daily Telegraph._

                  ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Mr. GEO. MOORE’S REALISTIC NOVELS.

                      Second Edition. Price 3s. 6d.

                   A MERE ACCIDENT: A Realistic Story.

    “The ‘Mere Accident’ is treated with a power and pathos which only
    serve to enhance the painfulness of the affair.”—_Times._

               Sixth Edition, with a Frontispiece, 3s. 6d.

                            A DRAMA IN MUSLIN.

    “The hideous comedy of the marriage market has been a stock topic
    with novelists from Thackeray downwards; but Mr. Moore goes deep
    into the yet more hideous tragedy which forms its
    afterpiece.”—_Pall Mall Gazette._

                    Eleventh and Cheaper Edition, 2s.

                             A MUMMER’S WIFE.

    “A striking book, different in tone from current English fiction.
    The woman’s character is a very powerful study.”—_Athenæum._

                           Fourth Edition, 2s.

                             A MODERN LOVER.

    “It would be difficult to praise too highly the strength, truth,
    delicacy and pathos of the incident of Gwynne Lloyd, and the
    admirable treatment of the great sacrifice she makes. The incident
    is depicted with skill and beauty.”—_Spectator._

                  ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

THE BOULEVARD NOVELS.

                  Pictures of Paris Morals and Manners.

          In small 8vo, attractively bound, price 2s. 6d. each.

*NANA’S DAUGHTER.* By A. SIRVEN and H. LEVERDIER.
*THE YOUNG GUARD.* By VAST-RICOUARD.
*THE WOMAN OF FIRE.* By ADOLPHE BELOT.
*ODETTE’S MARRIAGE.* By ALPHONSE DELPIT.
*THE VIRGIN WIDOW.* By A. MATTHEY.
*SEALED LIPS.* By F. DU BOISGOBEY.
*A LADIES’ MAN.* By GUY DE MAUPASSANT.
*A WOMAN’S LIFE.* By GUY DE MAUPASSANT.
*A MYSTERY STILL.* By F. DU BOISGOBEY.

FOOTNOTES

    1 The present value of a rouble is about two shillings.

    2 Short for Alexander and Nadejda.

================================================================================

SHORT STORIES

                       _By_ FIODOR DOSTOIEVSKI

                            [Illustration]

                             THE WORLD'S

                           POPULAR CLASSICS

                             BOOKS, INC.

                             _PUBLISHERS_

                      NEW YORK             BOSTON

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

                                                 PAGE

AN HONEST THIEF                                    1

A NOVEL IN NINE LETTERS                           21

AN UNPLEASANT PREDICAMENT                         36

ANOTHER MAN'S WIFE                               101

THE HEAVENLY CHRISTMAS TREE                      151

THE PEASANT MAREY                                156

THE CROCODILE                                    163

BOBOK                                            205

THE DREAM OF A RIDICULOUS MAN                    225

       *       *       *       *       *

AN HONEST THIEF

One morning, just as I was about to set off to my office, Agrafena, my
cook, washerwoman and housekeeper, came in to me and, to my surprise,
entered into conversation.

She had always been such a silent, simple creature that, except her daily
inquiry about dinner, she had not uttered a word for the last six years. I,
at least, had heard nothing else from her.

"Here I have come in to have a word with you, sir," she began abruptly;
"you really ought to let the little room."

"Which little room?"

"Why, the one next the kitchen, to be sure."

"What for?"

"What for? Why because folks do take in lodgers, to be sure."

"But who would take it?"

"Who would take it? Why, a lodger would take it, to be sure."

"But, my good woman, one could not put a bedstead in it; there wouldn't be
room to move! Who could live in it?"

"Who wants to live there! As long as he has a place to sleep in. Why, he
would live in the window."

"In what window?"

"In what window! As though you didn't know! The one in the passage, to be
sure. He would sit there, sewing or doing anything else. Maybe he would sit
on a chair, too. He's got a chair; and he has a table, too; he's got
everything."

"Who is 'he' then?"

"Oh, a good man, a man of experience. I will cook for him. And I'll ask
him three roubles a month for his board and lodging."

After prolonged efforts I succeeded at last in learning from Agrafena that
an elderly man had somehow managed to persuade her to admit him into the
kitchen as a lodger and boarder. Any notion Agrafena took into her head had
to be carried out; if not, I knew she would give me no peace. When anything
was not to her liking, she at once began to brood, and sank into a deep
dejection that would last for a fortnight or three weeks. During that
period my dinners were spoiled, my linen was mislaid, my floors went
unscrubbed; in short, I had a great deal to put up with. I had observed
long ago that this inarticulate woman was incapable of conceiving a
project, of originating an idea of her own. But if anything like a notion
or a project was by some means put into her feeble brain, to prevent its
being carried out meant, for a time, her moral assassination. And so, as I
cared more for my peace of mind than for anything else, I consented
forthwith.

"Has he a passport anyway, or something of the sort?"

"To be sure, he has. He is a good man, a man of experience; three roubles
he's promised to pay."

The very next day the new lodger made his appearance in my modest bachelor
quarters; but I was not put out by this, indeed I was inwardly pleased. I
lead as a rule a very lonely hermit's existence. I have scarcely any
friends; I hardly ever go anywhere. As I had spent ten years never coming
out of my shell, I had, of course, grown used to solitude. But another ten
or fifteen years or more of the same solitary existence, with the same
Agrafena, in the same bachelor quarters, was in truth a somewhat cheerless
prospect. And therefore a new inmate, if well-behaved, was a heaven-sent
blessing.

Agrafena had spoken truly: my lodger was certainly a man of experience.
From his passport it appeared that he was an old soldier, a fact which I
should have known indeed from his face. An old soldier is easily
recognised. Astafy Ivanovitch was a favourable specimen of his class. We
got on very well together. What was best of all, Astafy Ivanovitch would
sometimes tell a story, describing some incident in his own life. In the
perpetual boredom of my existence such a story-teller was a veritable
treasure. One day he told me one of these stories. It made an impression on
me. The following event was what led to it.

I was left alone in the flat; both Astafy and Agrafena were out on business
of their own. All of a sudden I heard from the inner room somebody--I
fancied a stranger--come in; I went out; there actually was a stranger in
the passage, a short fellow wearing no overcoat in spite of the cold autumn
weather.

"What do you want?"

"Does a clerk called Alexandrov live here?"

"Nobody of that name here, brother. Good-bye."

"Why, the dvornik told me it was here," said my visitor, cautiously
retiring towards the door.

"Be off, be off, brother, get along."

Next day after dinner, while Astafy Ivanovitch was fitting on a coat which
he was altering for me, again some one came into the passage. I half opened
the door.

Before my very eyes my yesterday's visitor, with perfect composure, took my
wadded greatcoat from the peg and, stuffing it under his arm, darted out of
the flat. Agrafena stood all the time staring at him, agape with
astonishment and doing nothing for the protection of my property. Astafy
Ivanovitch flew in pursuit of the thief and ten minutes later came back out
of breath and empty-handed. He had vanished completely.

"Well, there's a piece of luck, Astafy Ivanovitch!"

"It's a good job your cloak is left! Or he would have put you in a plight,
the thief!"

But the whole incident had so impressed Astafy Ivanovitch that I forgot the
theft as I looked at him. He could not get over it. Every minute or two he
would drop the work upon which he was engaged, and would describe over
again how it had all happened, how he had been standing, how the greatcoat
had been taken down before his very eyes, not a yard away, and how it had
come to pass that he could not catch the thief. Then he would sit down to
his work again, then leave it once more, and at last I saw him go down to
the dvornik to tell him all about it, and to upbraid him for letting such a
thing happen in his domain. Then he came back and began scolding Agrafena.
Then he sat down to his work again, and long afterwards he was still
muttering to himself how it had all happened, how he stood there and I was
here, how before our eyes, not a yard away, the thief took the coat off the
peg, and so on. In short, though Astafy Ivanovitch understood his business,
he was a terrible slow-coach and busy-body.

"He's made fools of us, Astafy Ivanovitch," I said to him in the evening,
as I gave him a glass of tea. I wanted to while away the time by recalling
the story of the lost greatcoat, the frequent repetition of which, together
with the great earnestness of the speaker, was beginning to become very
amusing.

"Fools, indeed, sir! Even though it is no business of mine, I am put out.
It makes me angry though it is not my coat that was lost. To my thinking
there is no vermin in the world worse than a thief. Another takes what you
can spare, but a thief steals the work of your hands, the sweat of your
brow, your time ... Ugh, it's nasty! One can't speak of it! it's too
vexing. How is it you don't feel the loss of your property, sir?"

"Yes, you are right, Astafy Ivanovitch, better if the thing had been
burnt; it's annoying to let the thief have it, it's disagreeable."

"Disagreeable! I should think so! Yet, to be sure, there are thieves and
thieves. And I have happened, sir, to come across an honest thief."

"An honest thief? But how can a thief be honest, Astafy Ivanovitch?"

"There you are right indeed, sir. How can a thief be honest? There are none
such. I only meant to say that he was an honest man, sure enough, and yet
he stole. I was simply sorry for him."

"Why, how was that, Astafy Ivanovitch?"

"It was about two years ago, sir. I had been nearly a year out of a place,
and just before I lost my place I made the acquaintance of a poor lost
creature. We got acquainted in a public-house. He was a drunkard, a
vagrant, a beggar, he had been in a situation of some sort, but from his
drinking habits he had lost his work. Such a ne'er-do-weel! God only knows
what he had on! Often you wouldn't be sure if he'd a shirt under his coat;
everything he could lay his hands upon he would drink away. But he was not
one to quarrel; he was a quiet fellow. A soft, good-natured chap. And he'd
never ask, he was ashamed; but you could see for yourself the poor fellow
wanted a drink, and you would stand it him. And so we got friendly, that's
to say, he stuck to me.... It was all one to me. And what a man he was, to
be sure! Like a little dog he would follow me; wherever I went there he
would be; and all that after our first meeting, and he as thin as a
thread-paper! At first it was 'let me stay the night'; well, I let him
stay.

"I looked at his passport, too; the man was all right.

"Well, the next day it was the same story, and then the third day he came
again and sat all day in the window and stayed the night. Well, thinks I,
he is sticking to me; give him food and drink and shelter at night,
too--here am I, a poor man, and a hanger-on to keep as well! And before he
came to me, he used to go in the same way to a government clerk's; he
attached himself to him; they were always drinking together; but he,
through trouble of some sort, drank himself into the grave. My man was
called Emelyan Ilyitch. I pondered and pondered what I was to do with him.
To drive him away I was ashamed. I was sorry for him; such a pitiful,
God-forsaken creature I never did set eyes on. And not a word said either;
he does not ask, but just sits there and looks into your eyes like a dog.
To think what drinking will bring a man down to!

"I keep asking myself how am I to say to him: 'You must be moving,
Emelyanoushka, there's nothing for you here, you've come to the wrong
place; I shall soon not have a bite for myself, how am I to keep you too?'

"I sat and wondered what he'd do when I said that to him. And I seemed to
see how he'd stare at me, if he were to hear me say that, how long he would
sit and not understand a word of it. And when it did get home to him at
last, how he would get up from the window, would take up his bundle--I can
see it now, the red-check handkerchief full of holes, with God knows what
wrapped up in it, which he had always with him, and then how he would set
his shabby old coat to rights, so that it would look decent and keep him
warm, so that no holes would be seen--he was a man of delicate feelings!
And how he'd open the door and go out with tears in his eyes. Well, there's
no letting a man go to ruin like that.... One's sorry for him.

"And then again, I think, how am I off myself? Wait a bit, Emelyanoushka,
says I to myself, you've not long to feast with me: I shall soon be going
away and then you will not find me.

"Well, sir, our family made a move; and Alexandr Filimonovitch, my master
(now deceased, God rest his soul), said, 'I am thoroughly satisfied with
you, Astafy Ivanovitch; when we come back from the country we will take
you on again.' I had been butler with them; a nice gentleman he was, but he
died that same year. Well, after seeing him off, I took my belongings, what
little money I had, and I thought I'd have a rest for a time, so I went to
an old woman I knew, and I took a corner in her room. There was only one
corner free in it. She had been a nurse, so now she had a pension and a
room of her own. Well, now good-bye, Emelyanoushka, thinks I, you won't
find me now, my boy.

"And what do you think, sir? I had gone out to see a man I knew, and when I
came back in the evening, the first thing I saw was Emelyanoushka! There he
was, sitting on my box and his check bundle beside him; he was sitting in
his ragged old coat, waiting for me. And to while away the time he had
borrowed a church book from the old lady, and was holding it wrong side
upwards. He'd scented me out! My heart sank. Well, thinks I, there's no
help for it--why didn't I turn him out at first? So I asked him straight
off: Have you brought your passport, Emelyanoushka?'

"I sat down on the spot, sir, and began to ponder: will a vagabond like
that be very much trouble to me? And on thinking it over it seemed he would
not be much trouble. He must be fed, I thought. Well, a bit of bread in the
morning, and to make it go down better I'll buy him an onion. At midday I
should have to give him another bit of bread and an onion; and in the
evening, onion again with kvass, with some more bread if he wanted it. And
if some cabbage soup were to come our way, then we should both have had our
fill. I am no great eater myself, and a drinking man, as we all know, never
eats; all he wants is herb-brandy or green vodka. He'll ruin me with his
drinking, I thought, but then another idea came into my head, sir, and took
great hold on me. So much so that if Emelyanoushka had gone away I should
have felt that I had nothing to live for, I do believe.... I determined on
the spot to be a father and guardian to him. I'll keep him from ruin, I
thought, I'll wean him from the glass! You wait a bit, thought I; very
well, Emelyanoushka, you may stay, only you must behave yourself; you must
obey orders.

"Well, thinks I to myself, I'll begin by training him to work of some sort,
but not all at once; let him enjoy himself a little first, and I'll look
round and find something you are fit for, Emelyanoushka. For every sort of
work a man needs a special ability, you know, sir. And I began to watch him
on the quiet; I soon saw Emelyanoushka was a desperate character. I began,
sir, with a word of advice: I said this and that to him. 'Emelyanoushka,'
said I, 'you ought to take a thought and mend your ways. Have done with
drinking! Just look what rags you go about in: that old coat of yours, if I
may make bold to say so, is fit for nothing but a sieve. A pretty state of
things! It's time to draw the line, sure enough.' Emelyanoushka sat and
listened to me with his head hanging down. Would you believe it, sir? It
had come to such a pass with him, he'd lost his tongue through drink and
could not speak a word of sense. Talk to him of cucumbers and he'd answer
back about beans! He would listen and listen to me and then heave such a
sigh. 'What are you sighing for, Emelyan Ilyitch?' I asked him.

"'Oh, nothing; don't you mind me, Astafy Ivanovitch. Do you know there were
two women fighting in the street to-day, Astafy Ivanovitch? One upset the
other woman's basket of cranberries by accident.'

"'Well, what of that?'

"'And the second one upset the other's cranberries on purpose and trampled
them under foot, too.'

"'Well, and what of it, Emelyan Ilyitch?'

"'Why, nothing, Astafy Ivanovitch, I just mentioned it.'

"'"Nothing, I just mentioned it!" Emelyanoushka, my boy, I thought, you've
squandered and drunk away your brains!'

"'And do you know, a gentleman dropped a money-note on the pavement in
Gorohovy Street, no, it was Sadovy Street. And a peasant saw it and said,
"That's my luck"; and at the same time another man saw it and said, "No,
it's my bit of luck. I saw it before you did."'

"'Well, Emelyan Ilyitch?'

"'And the fellows had a fight over it, Astafy Ivanovitch. But a policeman
came up, took away the note, gave it back to the gentleman and threatened
to take up both the men.'

"'Well, but what of that? What is there edifying about it, Emelyanoushka?'

"'Why, nothing, to be sure. Folks laughed, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'Ach, Emelyanoushka! What do the folks matter? You've sold your soul for a
brass farthing! But do you know what I have to tell you, Emelyan Ilyitch?'

"'What, Astafy Ivanovitch?'

"'Take a job of some sort, that's what you must do. For the hundredth time
I say to you, set to work, have some mercy on yourself!'

"'What could I set to, Astafy Ivanovitch? I don't know what job I could set
to, and there is no one who will take me on, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'That's how you came to be turned off, Emelyanoushka, you drinking man!'

"'And do you know Vlass, the waiter, was sent for to the office to-day,
Astafy Ivanovitch?'

"'Why did they send for him, Emelyanoushka?' I asked.

"'I could not say why, Astafy Ivanovitch. I suppose they wanted him there,
and that's why they sent for him.'

"A-ach, thought I, we are in a bad way, poor Emelyanoushka! The Lord is
chastising us for our sins. Well, sir, what is one to do with such a man?

"But a cunning fellow he was, and no mistake. He'd listen and listen to me,
but at last I suppose he got sick of it. As soon as he sees I am beginning
to get angry, he'd pick up his old coat and out he'd slip and leave no
trace. He'd wander about all day and come back at night drunk. Where he got
the money from, the Lord only knows; I had no hand in that.

"'No,' said I, 'Emelyan Ilyitch, you'll come to a bad end. Give over
drinking, mind what I say now, give it up! Next time you come home in
liquor, you can spend the night on the stairs. I won't let you in!'

"After hearing that threat, Emelyanoushka sat at home that day and the
next; but on the third he slipped off again. I waited and waited; he didn't
come back. Well, at least I don't mind owning, I was in a fright, and I
felt for the man too. What have I done to him? I thought. I've scared him
away. Where's the poor fellow gone to now? He'll get lost maybe. Lord have
mercy upon us!

"Night came on, he did not come. In the morning I went out into the porch;
I looked, and if he hadn't gone to sleep in the porch! There he was with
his head on the step, and chilled to the marrow of his bones.

"'What next, Emelyanoushka, God have mercy on you! Where will you get to
next!'

"'Why, you were--sort of--angry with me, Astafy Ivanovitch, the other day,
you were vexed and promised to put me to sleep in the porch, so I
didn't--sort of--venture to come in, Astafy Ivanovitch, and so I lay down
here....'

"I did feel angry and sorry too.

"'Surely you might undertake some other duty, Emelyanoushka, instead of
lying here guarding the steps,' I said.

"'Why, what other duty, Astafy Ivanovitch?'

"'You lost soul'--I was in such a rage, I called him that--'if you could
but learn tailoring work! Look at your old rag of a coat! It's not enough
to have it in tatters, here you are sweeping the steps with it! You might
take a needle and boggle up your rags, as decency demands. Ah, you drunken
man!'

"What do you think, sir? He actually did take a needle. Of course I said it
in jest, but he was so scared he set to work. He took off his coat and
began threading the needle. I watched him; as you may well guess, his eyes
were all red and bleary, and his hands were all of a shake. He kept shoving
and shoving the thread and could not get it through the eye of the needle;
he kept screwing his eyes up and wetting the thread and twisting it in his
fingers--it was no good! He gave it up and looked at me.

"'Well,' said I, 'this is a nice way to treat me! If there had been folks
by to see, I don't know what I should have done! Why, you simple fellow, I
said it you in joke, as a reproach. Give over your nonsense, God bless you!
Sit quiet and don't put me to shame, don't sleep on my stairs and make a
laughing-stock of me.'

"'Why, what am I to do, Astafy Ivanovitch? I know very well I am a
drunkard and good for nothing! I can do nothing but vex you, my
bene--bene--factor....'

"And at that his blue lips began all of a sudden to quiver, and a tear ran
down his white cheek and trembled on his stubbly chin, and then poor
Emelyanoushka burst into a regular flood of tears. Mercy on us! I felt as
though a knife were thrust into my heart! The sensitive creature! I'd never
have expected it. Who could have guessed it? No, Emelyanoushka, thought I,
I shall give you up altogether. You can go your way like the rubbish you
are.

"Well, sir, why make a long story of it? And the whole affair is so
trifling; it's not worth wasting words upon. Why, you, for instance, sir,
would not have given a thought to it, but I would have given a great
deal--if I had a great deal to give--that it never should have happened at
all.

"I had a pair of riding breeches by me, sir, deuce take them, fine,
first-rate riding breeches they were too, blue with a check on it. They'd
been ordered by a gentleman from the country, but he would not have them
after all; said they were not full enough, so they were left on my hands.
It struck me they were worth something. At the second-hand dealer's I ought
to get five silver roubles for them, or if not I could turn them into two
pairs of trousers for Petersburg gentlemen and have a piece over for a
waistcoat for myself. Of course for poor people like us everything comes
in. And it happened just then that Emelyanoushka was having a sad time of
it. There he sat day after day: he did not drink, not a drop passed his
lips, but he sat and moped like an owl. It was sad to see him--he just sat
and brooded. Well, thought I, either you've not got a copper to spend, my
lad, or else you're turning over a new leaf of yourself, you've given it
up, you've listened to reason. Well, sir, that's how it was with us; and
just then came a holiday. I went to vespers; when I came home I found
Emelyanoushka sitting in the window, drunk and rocking to and fro.

"Ah! so that's what you've been up to, my lad! And I went to get something
out of my chest. And when I looked in, the breeches were not there.... I
rummaged here and there; they'd vanished. When I'd ransacked everywhere and
saw they were not there, something seemed to stab me to the heart. I ran
first to the old dame and began accusing her; of Emelyanoushka I'd not the
faintest suspicion, though there was cause for it in his sitting there
drunk.

"'No,' said the old body, 'God be with you, my fine gentleman, what good
are riding breeches to me? Am I going to wear such things? Why, a skirt I
had I lost the other day through a fellow of your sort ... I know nothing;
I can tell you nothing about it,' she said.

"'Who has been here, who has been in?' I asked.

"'Why, nobody has been, my good sir,' says she; 'I've been here all the
while; Emelyan Ilyitch went out and came back again; there he sits, ask
him.'

"'Emelyanoushka,' said I, 'have you taken those new riding breeches for
anything; you remember the pair I made for that gentleman from the
country?'

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch,' said he; 'I've not--sort of--touched them.'

"I was in a state! I hunted high and low for them--they were nowhere to be
found. And Emelyanoushka sits there rocking himself to and fro. I was
squatting on my heels facing him and bending over the chest, and all at
once I stole a glance at him.... Alack, I thought; my heart suddenly grew
hot within me and I felt myself flushing up too. And suddenly Emelyanoushka
looked at me.

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch,' said he, 'those riding breeches of yours, maybe,
you are thinking, maybe, I took them, but I never touched them.'

"'But what can have become of them, Emelyan Ilyitch?'

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch,' said he, 'I've never seen them.'

"'Why, Emelyan Ilyitch, I suppose they've run off of themselves, eh?'

"'Maybe they have, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"When I heard him say that, I got up at once, went up to him, lighted the
lamp and sat down to work to my sewing. I was altering a waistcoat for a
clerk who lived below us. And wasn't there a burning pain and ache in my
breast! I shouldn't have minded so much if I had put all the clothes I had
in the fire. Emelyanoushka seemed to have an inkling of what a rage I was
in. When a man is guilty, you know, sir, he scents trouble far off, like
the birds of the air before a storm.

"'Do you know what, Astafy Ivanovitch,' Emelyanoushka began, and his poor
old voice was shaking as he said the words, 'Antip Prohoritch, the
apothecary, married the coachman's wife this morning, who died the other
day----'

"I did give him a look, sir, a nasty look it was; Emelyanoushka understood
it too. I saw him get up, go to the bed, and begin to rummage there for
something. I waited--he was busy there a long time and kept muttering all
the while, 'No, not there, where can the blessed things have got to!' I
waited to see what he'd do; I saw him creep under the bed on all fours. I
couldn't bear it any longer. 'What are you crawling about under the bed
for, Emelyan Ilyitch?' said I.

"'Looking for the breeches, Astafy Ivanovitch. Maybe they've dropped down
there somewhere.'

"'Why should you try to help a poor simple man like me,' said I, 'crawling
on your knees for nothing, sir?'--I called him that in my vexation.

"'Oh, never mind, Astafy Ivanovitch, I'll just look. They'll turn up,
maybe, somewhere.'

"'H'm,' said I, 'look here, Emelyan Ilyitch!'

"'What is it, Astafy Ivanovitch?' said he.

"'Haven't you simply stolen them from me like a thief and a robber, in
return for the bread and salt you've eaten here?' said I.

"I felt so angry, sir, at seeing him fooling about on his knees before me.

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"And he stayed lying as he was on his face under the bed. A long time he
lay there and then at last crept out. I looked at him and the man was as
white as a sheet. He stood up, and sat down near me in the window and sat
so for some ten minutes.

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch,' he said, and all at once he stood up and came
towards me, and I can see him now; he looked dreadful. 'No, Astafy
Ivanovitch,' said he, 'I never--sort of--touched your breeches.'

"He was all of a shake, poking himself in the chest with a trembling
finger, and his poor old voice shook so that I was frightened, sir, and sat
as though I was rooted to the window-seat.

"'Well, Emelyan Ilyitch,' said I, 'as you will, forgive me if I, in my
foolishness, have accused you unjustly. As for the breeches, let them go
hang; we can live without them. We've still our hands, thank God; we need
not go thieving or begging from some other poor man; we'll earn our bread.'

"Emelyanoushka heard me out and went on standing there before me. I looked
up, and he had sat down. And there he sat all the evening without stirring.
At last I lay down to sleep. Emelyanoushka went on sitting in the same
place. When I looked out in the morning, he was lying curled up in his old
coat on the bare floor; he felt too crushed even to come to bed. Well, sir,
I felt no more liking for the fellow from that day, in fact for the first
few days I hated him. I felt as one may say as though my own son had robbed
me, and done me a deadly hurt. Ach, thought I, Emelyanoushka,
Emelyanoushka! And Emelyanoushka, sir, went on drinking for a whole
fortnight without stopping. He was drunk all the time, and regularly
besotted. He went out in the morning and came back late at night, and for a
whole fortnight I didn't get a word out of him. It was as though grief was
gnawing at his heart, or as though he wanted to do for himself completely.
At last he stopped; he must have come to the end of all he'd got, and then
he sat in the window again. I remember he sat there without speaking for
three days and three nights; all of a sudden I saw that he was crying. He
was just sitting there, sir, and crying like anything; a perfect stream, as
though he didn't know how his tears were flowing. And it's a sad thing,
sir, to see a grown-up man and an old man, too, crying from woe and grief.

"'What's the matter, Emelyanoushka?' said I.

"He began to tremble so that he shook all over. I spoke to him for the
first time since that evening.

"'Nothing, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'God be with you, Emelyanoushka, what's lost is lost. Why are you moping
about like this?' I felt sorry for him.

"'Oh, nothing, Astafy Ivanovitch, it's no matter. I want to find some work
to do, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'And what sort of work, pray, Emelyanoushka?'

"'Why, any sort; perhaps I could find a situation such as I used to have.
I've been already to ask Fedosay Ivanitch. I don't like to be a burden on
you, Astafy Ivanovitch. If I can find a situation, Astafy Ivanovitch, then
I'll pay it you all back, and make you a return for all your hospitality.'

"'Enough, Emelyanoushka, enough; let bygones be bygones--and no more to be
said about it. Let us go on as we used to do before.'

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch, you, maybe, think--but I never touched your riding
breeches.'

"'Well, have it your own way; God be with you, Emelyanoushka.'

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch, I can't go on living with you, that's clear. You
must excuse me, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'Why, God bless you, Emelyan Ilyitch, who's offending you and driving you
out of the place--am I doing it?'

"'No, it's not the proper thing for me to live with you like this, Astafy
Ivanovitch. I'd better be going.'

"He was so hurt, it seemed, he stuck to his point. I looked at him, and
sure enough, up he got and pulled his old coat over his shoulders.

"'But where are you going, Emelyan Ilyitch? Listen to reason: what are you
about? Where are you off to?'

"'No, good-bye, Astafy Ivanovitch, don't keep me now'--and he was
blubbering again--'I'd better be going. You're not the same now.'

"'Not the same as what? I am the same. But you'll be lost by yourself like
a poor helpless babe, Emelyan Ilyitch.'

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch, when you go out now, you lock up your chest and it
makes me cry to see it, Astafy Ivanovitch. You'd better let me go, Astafy
Ivanovitch, and forgive me all the trouble I've given you while I've been
living with you.'

"Well, sir, the man went away. I waited for a day; I expected he'd be back
in the evening--no. Next day no sign of him, nor the third day either. I
began to get frightened; I was so worried, I couldn't drink, I couldn't
eat, I couldn't sleep. The fellow had quite disarmed me. On the fourth day
I went out to look for him; I peeped into all the taverns, to inquire for
him--but no, Emelyanoushka was lost. 'Have you managed to keep yourself
alive, Emelyanoushka?' I wondered. 'Perhaps he is lying dead under some
hedge, poor drunkard, like a sodden log.' I went home more dead than alive.
Next day I went out to look for him again. And I kept cursing myself that
I'd been such a fool as to let the man go off by himself. On the fifth day
it was a holiday--in the early morning I heard the door creak. I looked up
and there was my Emelyanoushka coming in. His face was blue and his hair
was covered with dirt as though he'd been sleeping in the street; he was as
thin as a match. He took off his old coat, sat down on the chest and looked
at me. I was delighted to see him, but I felt more upset about him than
ever. For you see, sir, if I'd been overtaken in some sin, as true as I am
here, sir, I'd have died like a dog before I'd have come back. But
Emelyanoushka did come back. And a sad thing it was, sure enough, to see a
man sunk so low. I began to look after him, to talk kindly to him, to
comfort him.

"'Well, Emelyanoushka,' said I, 'I am glad you've come back. Had you been
away much longer I should have gone to look for you in the taverns again
to-day. Are you hungry?'

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'Come, now, aren't you really? Here, brother, is some cabbage soup left
over from yesterday; there was meat in it; it is good stuff. And here is
some bread and onion. Come, eat it, it'll do you no harm.'

"I made him eat it, and I saw at once that the man had not tasted food for
maybe three days--he was as hungry as a wolf. So it was hunger that had
driven him to me. My heart was melted looking at the poor dear. 'Let me run
to the tavern,' thought I, 'I'll get something to ease his heart, and then
we'll make an end of it. I've no more anger in my heart against you,
Emelyanoushka!' I brought him some vodka. 'Here, Emelyan Ilyitch, let us
have a drink for the holiday. Like a drink? And it will do you good.' He
held out his hand, held it out greedily; he was just taking it, and then he
stopped himself. But a minute after I saw him take it, and lift it to his
mouth, spilling it on his sleeve. But though he got it to his lips he set
it down on the table again.

"'What is it, Emelyanoushka?'

"'Nothing, Astafy Ivanovitch, I--sort of----'

"'Won't you drink it?'

"'Well, Astafy Ivanovitch, I'm not--sort of--going to drink any more,
Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'Do you mean you've given it up altogether, Emelyanoushka, or are you only
not going to drink to-day?'

"He did not answer. A minute later I saw him rest his head on his hand.

"'What's the matter, Emelyanoushka, are you ill?'

"'Why, yes, Astafy Ivanovitch, I don't feel well.'

"I took him and laid him down on the bed. I saw that he really was ill: his
head was burning hot and he was shivering with fever. I sat by him all day;
towards night he was worse. I mixed him some oil and onion and kvass and
bread broken up.

"'Come, eat some of this,' said I, 'and perhaps you'll be better.' He shook
his head. 'No,' said he, 'I won't have any dinner to-day, Astafy
Ivanovitch.'

"I made some tea for him, I quite flustered our old woman--he was no
better. Well, thinks I, it's a bad look-out! The third morning I went for a
medical gentleman. There was one I knew living close by, Kostopravov by
name. I'd made his acquaintance when I was in service with the
Bosomyagins; he'd attended me. The doctor come and looked at him. 'He's in
a bad way,' said he, 'it was no use sending for me. But if you like I can
give him a powder.' Well, I didn't give him a powder, I thought that's just
the doctor's little game; and then the fifth day came.

"He lay, sir, dying before my eyes. I sat in the window with my work in my
hands. The old woman was heating the stove. We were all silent. My heart
was simply breaking over him, the good-for-nothing fellow; I felt as if it
were a son of my own I was losing. I knew that Emelyanoushka was looking at
me. I'd seen the man all the day long making up his mind to say something
and not daring to.

"At last I looked up at him; I saw such misery in the poor fellow's eyes.
He had kept them fixed on me, but when he saw that I was looking at him, he
looked down at once.

"'Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'What is it, Emelyanoushka?'

"'If you were to take my old coat to a second-hand dealer's, how much do
you think they'd give you for it, Astafy Ivanovitch?'

"'There's no knowing how much they'd give. Maybe they would give me a
rouble for it, Emelyan Ilyitch.'

"But if I had taken it they wouldn't have given a farthing for it, but
would have laughed in my face for bringing such a trumpery thing. I simply
said that to comfort the poor fellow, knowing the simpleton he was.

"'But I was thinking, Astafy Ivanovitch, they might give you three roubles
for it; it's made of cloth, Astafy Ivanovitch. How could they only give one
rouble for a cloth coat?'

"'I don't know, Emelyan Ilyitch,' said I, 'if you are thinking of taking it
you should certainly ask three roubles to begin with.'

"Emelyanoushka was silent for a time, and then he addressed me again--

"'Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"'What is it, Emelyanoushka?' I asked.

"'Sell my coat when I die, and don't bury me in it. I can lie as well
without it; and it's a thing of some value--it might come in useful.'

"I can't tell you how it made my heart ache to hear him. I saw that the
death agony was coming on him. We were silent again for a bit. So an hour
passed by. I looked at him again: he was still staring at me, and when he
met my eyes he looked down again.

"'Do you want some water to drink, Emelyan Ilyitch?' I asked.

"'Give me some, God bless you, Astafy Ivanovitch.'

"I gave him a drink.

"'Thank you, Astafy Ivanovitch,' said he.

"'Is there anything else you would like, Emelyanoushka?'

"'No, Astafy Ivanovitch, there's nothing I want, but I--sort of----'

"'What?'

"'I only----'

"'What is it, Emelyanoushka?'

"'Those riding breeches----it was----sort of----I who took them----Astafy
Ivanovitch.'

"'Well, God forgive you, Emelyanoushka,' said I, 'you poor, sorrowful
creature. Depart in peace.'

"And I was choking myself, sir, and the tears were in my eyes. I turned
aside for a moment.

"'Astafy Ivanovitch----'

"I saw Emelyanoushka wanted to tell me something; he was trying to sit up,
trying to speak, and mumbling something. He flushed red all over suddenly,
looked at me ... then I saw him turn white again, whiter and whiter, and he
seemed to sink away all in a minute. His head fell back, he drew one breath
and gave up his soul to God."

A NOVEL IN NINE LETTERS

I

(FROM PYOTR IVANITCH TO IVAN PETROVITCH)

DEAR SIR AND MOST PRECIOUS FRIEND, IVAN PETROVITCH,

For the last two days I have been, I may say, in pursuit of you, my friend,
having to talk over most urgent business with you, and I cannot come across
you anywhere. Yesterday, while we were at Semyon Alexeyitch's, my wife made
a very good joke about you, saying that Tatyana Petrovna and you were a
pair of birds always on the wing. You have not been married three months
and you already neglect your domestic hearth. We all laughed heartily--from
our genuine kindly feeling for you, of course--but, joking apart, my
precious friend, you have given me a lot of trouble. Semyon Alexeyitch said
to me that you might be going to the ball at the Social Union's club!
Leaving my wife with Semyon Alexeyitch's good lady, I flew off to the
Social Union. It was funny and tragic! Fancy my position! Me at the
ball--and alone, without my wife! Ivan Andreyitch meeting me in the
porter's lodge and seeing me alone, at once concluded (the rascal!) that I
had a passion for dances, and taking me by the arm, wanted to drag me off
by force to a dancing class, saying that it was too crowded at the Social
Union, that an ardent spirit had not room to turn, and that his head ached
from the patchouli and mignonette. I found neither you, nor Tatyana
Petrovna. Ivan Andreyitch vowed and declared that you would be at _Woe from
Wit_, at the Alexandrinsky theatre.

I flew off to the Alexandrinsky theatre: you were not there either. This
morning I expected to find you at Tchistoganov's--no sign of you there.
Tchistoganov sent to the Perepalkins'--the same thing there. In fact, I am
quite worn out; you can judge how much trouble I have taken! Now I am
writing to you (there is nothing else I can do). My business is by no means
a literary one (you understand me?); it would be better to meet face to
face, it is extremely necessary to discuss something with you and as
quickly as possible, and so I beg you to come to us to-day with Tatyana
Petrovna to tea and for a chat in the evening. My Anna Mihalovna will be
extremely pleased to see you. You will truly, as they say, oblige me to my
dying day. By the way, my precious friend--since I have taken up my pen
I'll go into all I have against you--I have a slight complaint I must make;
in fact, I must reproach you, my worthy friend, for an apparently very
innocent little trick which you have played at my expense.... You are a
rascal, a man without conscience. About the middle of last month, you
brought into my house an acquaintance of yours, Yevgeny Nikolaitch; you
vouched for him by your friendly and, for me, of course, sacred
recommendation; I rejoiced at the opportunity of receiving the young man
with open arms, and when I did so I put my head in a noose. A noose it
hardly is, but it has turned out a pretty business. I have not time now to
explain, and indeed it is an awkward thing to do in writing, only a very
humble request to you, my malicious friend: could you not somehow very
delicately, in passing, drop a hint into the young man's ear that there are
a great many houses in the metropolis besides ours? It's more than I can
stand, my dear fellow! We fall at your feet, as our friend Semyonovitch
says. I will tell you all about it when we meet. I don't mean to say that
the young man has sinned against good manners, or is lacking in spiritual
qualities, or is not up to the mark in some other way. On the contrary, he
is an amiable and pleasant fellow; but wait, we shall meet; meanwhile if
you see him, for goodness' sake whisper a hint to him, my good friend. I
would do it myself, but you know what I am, I simply can't, and that's all
about it. You introduced him. But I will explain myself more fully this
evening, anyway. Now good-bye. I remain, etc.

P.S.--My little boy has been ailing for the last week, and gets worse and
worse every day; he is cutting his poor little teeth. My wife is nursing
him all the time, and is depressed, poor thing. Be sure to come, you will
give us real pleasure, my precious friend.

II

(FROM IVAN PETROVITCH TO PYOTR IVANITCH)

DEAR SIR, PYOTR IVANITCH!

I got your letter yesterday, I read it and was perplexed. You looked for
me, goodness knows where, and I was simply at home. Till ten o'clock I was
expecting Ivan Ivanitch Tolokonov. At once on getting your letter I set out
with my wife, I went to the expense of taking a cab, and reached your house
about half-past six. You were not at home, but we were met by your wife. I
waited to see you till half-past ten, I could not stay later. I set off
with my wife, went to the expense of a cab again, saw her home, and went on
myself to the Perepalkins', thinking I might meet you there, but again I
was out in my reckoning. When I get home I did not sleep all night, I felt
uneasy; in the morning I drove round to you three times, at nine, at ten
and at eleven; three times I went to the expense of a cab, and again you
left me in the lurch.

I read your letter and was amazed. You write about Yevgeny Nikolaitch, beg
me to whisper some hint, and do not tell me what about. I commend your
caution, but all letters are not alike, and I don't give documents of
importance to my wife for curl-papers. I am puzzled, in fact, to know with
what motive you wrote all this to me. However, if it comes to that, why
should I meddle in the matter? I don't poke my nose into other people's
business. You can be not at home to him; I only see that I must have a
brief and decisive explanation with you, and, moreover, time is passing.
And I am in straits and don't know what to do if you are going to neglect
the terms of our agreement. A journey for nothing; a journey costs
something, too, and my wife's whining for me to get her a velvet mantle of
the latest fashion. About Yevgeny Nikolaitch I hasten to mention that when
I was at Pavel Semyonovitch Perepalkin's yesterday I made inquiries without
loss of time. He has five hundred serfs in the province of Yaroslav, and he
has expectations from his grandmother of an estate of three hundred serfs
near Moscow. How much money he has I cannot tell; I think you ought to know
that better. I beg you once for all to appoint a place where I can meet
you. You met Ivan Andreyitch yesterday, and you write that he told you that
I was at the Alexandrinsky theatre with my wife. I write, that he is a
liar, and it shows how little he is to be trusted in such cases, that only
the day before yesterday he did his grandmother out of eight hundred
roubles. I have the honour to remain, etc.

P.S.--My wife is going to have a baby; she is nervous about it and feels
depressed at times. At the theatre they sometimes have fire-arms going off
and sham thunderstorms. And so for fear of a shock to my wife's nerves I do
not take her to the theatre. I have no great partiality for the theatre
myself.

III

(FROM PYOTR IVANITCH TO IVAN PETROVITCH)

MY PRECIOUS FRIEND, IVAN PETROVITCH,

I am to blame, to blame, a thousand times to blame, but I hasten to defend
myself. Between five and six yesterday, just as we were talking of you with
the warmest affection, a messenger from Uncle Stepan Alexeyitch galloped up
with the news that my aunt was very bad. Being afraid of alarming my wife,
I did not say a word of this to her, but on the pretext of other urgent
business I drove off to my aunt's house. I found her almost dying. Just at
five o'clock she had had a stroke, the third she has had in the last two
years. Karl Fyodoritch, their family doctor, told us that she might not
live through the night. You can judge of my position, dearest friend. We
were on our legs all night in grief and anxiety. It was not till morning
that, utterly exhausted and overcome by moral and physical weakness, I lay
down on the sofa; I forgot to tell them to wake me, and only woke at
half-past eleven. My aunt was better. I drove home to my wife. She, poor
thing, was quite worn out expecting me. I snatched a bite of something,
embraced my little boy, reassured my wife and set off to call on you. You
were not at home. At your flat I found Yevgeny Nikolaitch. When I got home
I took up a pen, and here I am writing to you. Don't grumble and be cross
to me, my true friend. Beat me, chop my guilty head off my shoulders, but
don't deprive me of your affection. From your wife I learned that you will
be at the Slavyanovs' this evening. I will certainly be there. I look
forward with the greatest impatience to seeing you.

I remain, etc.

P.S.--We are in perfect despair about our little boy. Karl Fyodoritch
prescribes rhubarb. He moans. Yesterday he did not know any one. This
morning he did know us, and began lisping papa, mamma, boo.... My wife
was in tears the whole morning.

IV

(FROM IVAN PETROVITCH TO PYOTR IVANITCH)

MY DEAR SIR, PYOTR IVANITCH!

I am writing to you, in your room, at your bureau; and before taking up my
pen, I have been waiting for more than two and a half hours for you. Now
allow me to tell you straight out, Pyotr Ivanitch, my frank opinion about
this shabby incident. From your last letter I gathered that you were
expected at the Slavyanovs', that you were inviting me to go there; I
turned up, I stayed for five hours and there was no sign of you. Why, am I
to be made a laughing-stock to people, do you suppose? Excuse me, my dear
sir ... I came to you this morning, I hoped to find you, not imitating
certain deceitful persons who look for people, God knows where, when they
can be found at home at any suitably chosen time. There is no sign of you
at home. I don't know what restrains me from telling you now the whole
harsh truth. I will only say that I see you seem to be going back on your
bargain regarding our agreement. And only now reflecting on the whole
affair, I cannot but confess that I am absolutely astounded at the artful
workings of your mind. I see clearly now that you have been cherishing your
unfriendly design for a long time. This supposition of mine is confirmed by
the fact that last week in an almost unpardonable way you took possession
of that letter of yours addressed to me, in which you laid down yourself,
though rather vaguely and incoherently, the terms of our agreement in
regard to a circumstance of which I need not remind you. You are afraid of
documents, you destroy them, and you try to make a fool of me. But I won't
allow myself to be made a fool of, for no one has ever considered me one
hitherto, and every one has thought well of me in that respect. I am
opening my eyes. You try and put me off, confuse me with talk of Yevgeny
Nikolaitch, and when with your letter of the seventh of this month, which I
am still at a loss to understand, I seek a personal explanation from you,
you make humbugging appointments, while you keep out of the way. Surely you
do not suppose, sir, that I am not equal to noticing all this? You promised
to reward me for my services, of which you are very well aware, in the way
of introducing various persons, and at the same time, and I don't know how
you do it, you contrive to borrow money from me in considerable sums
without giving a receipt, as happened no longer ago than last week. Now,
having got the money, you keep out of the way, and what's more, you
repudiate the service I have done you in regard to Yevgeny Nikolaitch. You
are probably reckoning on my speedy departure to Simbirsk, and hoping I may
not have time to settle your business. But I assure you solemnly and
testify on my word of honour that if it comes to that, I am prepared to
spend two more months in Petersburg expressly to carry through my business,
to attain my objects, and to get hold of you. For I, too, on occasion know
how to get the better of people. In conclusion, I beg to inform you that if
you do not give me a satisfactory explanation to-day, first in writing, and
then personally face to face, and do not make a fresh statement in your
letter of the chief points of the agreement existing between us, and do not
explain fully your views in regard to Yevgeny Nikolaitch, I shall be
compelled to have recourse to measures that will be highly unpleasant to
you, and indeed repugnant to me also.

Allow me to remain, etc.

V

(FROM PYOTR IVANITCH TO IVAN PETROVITCH)

_November 11._

MY DEAR AND HONOURED FRIEND, IVAN PETROVITCH!

I was cut to the heart by your letter. I wonder you were not ashamed, my
dear but unjust friend, to behave like this to one of your most devoted
friends. Why be in such a hurry, and without explaining things fully, wound
me with such insulting suspicions? But I hasten to reply to your charges.
You did not find me yesterday, Ivan Petrovitch, because I was suddenly and
quite unexpectedly called away to a death-bed. My aunt, Yefimya Nikolaevna,
passed away yesterday evening at eleven o'clock in the night. By the
general consent of the relatives I was selected to make the arrangements
for the sad and sorrowful ceremony. I had so much to do that I had not time
to see you this morning, nor even to send you a line. I am grieved to the
heart at the misunderstanding which has arisen between us. My words about
Yevgeny Nikolaitch uttered casually and in jest you have taken in quite a
wrong sense, and have ascribed to them a meaning deeply offensive to me.
You refer to money and express your anxiety about it. But without wasting
words I am ready to satisfy all your claims and demands, though I must
remind you that the three hundred and fifty roubles I had from you last
week were in accordance with a certain agreement and not by way of a loan.
In the latter case there would certainly have been a receipt. I will not
condescend to discuss the other points mentioned in your letter. I see that
it is a misunderstanding. I see it is your habitual hastiness, hot temper
and obstinacy. I know that your goodheartedness and open character will not
allow doubts to persist in your heart, and that you will be, in fact, the
first to hold out your hand to me. You are mistaken, Ivan Petrovitch, you
are greatly mistaken!

Although your letter has deeply wounded me, I should be prepared even
to-day to come to you and apologise, but I have been since yesterday in
such a rush and flurry that I am utterly exhausted and can scarcely stand
on my feet. To complete my troubles, my wife is laid up; I am afraid she is
seriously ill. Our little boy, thank God, is better; but I must lay down my
pen, I have a mass of things to do and they are urgent. Allow me, my dear
friend, to remain, etc.

VI

(FROM IVAN PETROVITCH TO PYOTR IVANITCH)

_November 14._

DEAR SIR, PYOTR IVANITCH!

I have been waiting for three days, I tried to make a profitable use of
them--meanwhile I feel that politeness and good manners are the greatest of
ornaments for every one. Since my last letter of the tenth of this month, I
have neither by word nor deed reminded you of my existence, partly in order
to allow you undisturbed to perform the duty of a Christian in regard to
your aunt, partly because I needed the time for certain considerations and
investigations in regard to a business you know of. Now I hasten to explain
myself to you in the most thoroughgoing and decisive manner.

I frankly confess that on reading your first two letters I seriously
supposed that you did not understand what I wanted; that was how it was
that I rather sought an interview with you and explanations face to face. I
was afraid of writing, and blamed myself for lack of clearness in the
expression of my thoughts on paper. You are aware that I have not the
advantages of education and good manners, and that I shun a hollow show of
gentility because I have learned from bitter experience how misleading
appearances often are, and that a snake sometimes lies hidden under
flowers. But you understood me; you did not answer me as you should have
done because, in the treachery of your heart, you had planned beforehand to
be faithless to your word of honour and to the friendly relations existing
between us. You have proved this absolutely by your abominable conduct
towards me of late, which is fatal to my interests, which I did not expect
and which I refused to believe till the present moment. From the very
beginning of our acquaintance you captivated me by your clever manners, by
the subtlety of your behaviour, your knowledge of affairs and the
advantages to be gained by association with you. I imagined that I had
found a true friend and well-wisher. Now I recognise clearly that there are
many people who under a flattering and brilliant exterior hide venom in
their hearts, who use their cleverness to weave snares for their neighbour
and for unpardonable deception, and so are afraid of pen and paper, and at
the same time use their fine language not for the benefit of their
neighbour and their country, but to drug and bewitch the reason of those
who have entered into business relations of any sort with them. Your
treachery to me, my dear sir, can be clearly seen from what follows.

In the first place, when, in the clear and distinct terms of my letter, I
described my position, sir, and at the same time asked you in my first
letter what you meant by certain expressions and intentions of yours,
principally in regard to Yevgeny Nikolaitch, you tried for the most part to
avoid answering, and confounding me by doubts and suspicions, you calmly
put the subject aside. Then after treating me in a way which cannot be
described by any seemly word, you began writing that you were wounded.
Pray, what am I to call that, sir? Then when every minute was precious to
me and when you had set me running after you all over the town, you wrote,
pretending personal friendship, letters in which, intentionally avoiding
all mention of business, you spoke of utterly irrelevant matters; to wit,
of the illnesses of your good lady for whom I have, in any case, every
respect, and of how your baby had been dosed with rhubarb and was cutting a
tooth. All this you alluded to in every letter with a disgusting regularity
that was insulting to me. Of course I am prepared to admit that a father's
heart may be torn by the sufferings of his babe, but why make mention of
this when something different, far more important and interesting, was
needed? I endured it in silence, but now when time has elapsed I think it
my duty to explain myself. Finally, treacherously deceiving me several
times by making humbugging appointments, you tried, it seems, to make me
play the part of a fool and a laughing-stock for you, which I never intend
to be. Then after first inviting me and thoroughly deceiving me, you
informed me that you were called away to your suffering aunt who had had a
stroke, precisely at five o'clock as you stated with shameful exactitude.
Luckily for me, sir, in the course of these three days I have succeeded in
making inquiries and have learnt from them that your aunt had a stroke on
the day before the seventh not long before midnight. From this fact I see
that you have made use of sacred family relations in order to deceive
persons in no way concerned with them. Finally, in your last letter you
mention the death of your relatives as though it had taken place precisely
at the time when I was to have visited you to consult about various
business matters. But here the vileness of your arts and calculations
exceeds all belief, for from trustworthy information which I was able by a
lucky chance to obtain just in the nick of time, I have found out that your
aunt died twenty-four hours later than the time you so impiously fixed for
her decease in your letter. I shall never have done if I enumerate all the
signs by which I have discovered your treachery in regard to me. It is
sufficient, indeed, for any impartial observer that in every letter you
style me, your true friend, and call me all sorts of polite names, which
you do, to the best of my belief, for no other object than to put my
conscience to sleep.

I have come now to your principal act of deceit and treachery in regard to
me, to wit, your continual silence of late in regard to everything
concerning our common interests, in regard to your wicked theft of the
letter in which you stated, though in language somewhat obscure and not
perfectly intelligible to me, our mutual agreements, your barbarous
forcible loan of three hundred and fifty roubles which you borrowed from me
as your partner without giving any receipt, and finally, your abominable
slanders of our common acquaintance, Yevgeny Nikolaitch. I see clearly now
that you meant to show me that he was, if you will allow me to say so, like
a billy-goat, good for neither milk nor wool, that he was neither one thing
nor the other, neither fish nor flesh, which you put down as a vice in him
in your letter of the sixth instant. I knew Yevgeny Nikolaitch as a modest
and well-behaved young man, whereby he may well attract, gain and deserve
respect in society. I know also that every evening for the last fortnight
you've put into your pocket dozens and sometimes even hundreds of roubles,
playing games of chance with Yevgeny Nikolaitch. Now you disavow all this,
and not only refuse to compensate me for what I have suffered, but have
even appropriated money belonging to me, tempting me by suggestions that I
should be partner in the affair, and luring me with various advantages
which were to accrue. After having appropriated, in a most illegal way,
money of mine and of Yevgeny Nikolaitch's, you decline to compensate me,
resorting for that object to calumny with which you have unjustifiably
blackened in my eyes a man whom I, by my efforts and exertions, introduced
into your house. While on the contrary, from what I hear from your friends,
you are still almost slobbering over him, and give out to the whole world
that he is your dearest friend, though there is no one in the world such a
fool as not to guess at once what your designs are aiming at and what your
friendly relations really mean. I should say that they mean deceit,
treachery, forgetfulness of human duties and proprieties, contrary to the
law of God and vicious in every way. I take myself as a proof and example.
In what way have I offended you and why have you treated me in this godless
fashion?

I will end my letter. I have explained myself. Now in conclusion. If, sir,
you do not in the shortest possible time after receiving this letter return
me in full, first, the three hundred and fifty roubles I gave you, and,
secondly, all the sums that should come to me according to your promise, I
will have recourse to every possible means to compel you to return it, even
to open force, secondly to the protection of the laws, and finally I beg to
inform you that I am in possession of facts, which, if they remain in the
hands of your humble servant, may ruin and disgrace your name in the eyes
of all the world. Allow me to remain, etc.

VII

(FROM PYOTR IVANITCH TO IVAN PETROVITCH)

_November 15._

IVAN PETROVITCH!

When I received your vulgar and at the same time queer letter, my impulse
for the first minute was to tear it into shreds, but I have preserved it as
a curiosity. I do, however, sincerely regret our misunderstandings and
unpleasant relations. I did not mean to answer you. But I am compelled by
necessity. I must in these lines inform you that it would be very
unpleasant for me to see you in my house at any time; my wife feels the
same: she is in delicate health and the smell of tar upsets her. My wife
sends your wife the book, _Don Quixote de la Mancha_, with her sincere
thanks. As for the galoshes you say you left behind here on your last
visit, I must regretfully inform you that they are nowhere to be found.
They are still being looked for; but if they do not turn up, then I will
buy you a new pair.

I have the honour to remain your sincere friend,

VIII

On the sixteenth of November, Pyotr Ivanitch received by post two letters
addressed to him. Opening the first envelope, he took out a carefully
folded note on pale pink paper. The handwriting was his wife's. It was
addressed to Yevgeny Nikolaitch and dated November the second. There was
nothing else in the envelope. Pyotr Ivanitch read:

DEAR EUGÈNE,

Yesterday was utterly impossible. My husband was at home the whole evening.
Be sure to come to-morrow punctually at eleven. At half-past ten my husband
is going to Tsarskoe and not coming back till evening. I was in a rage all
night. Thank you for sending me the information and the correspondence.
What a lot of paper. Did she really write all that? She has style though;
many thanks, dear; I see that you love me. Don't be angry, but, for
goodness sake, come to-morrow.

A.

Pyotr Ivanitch tore open the other letter:

PYOTR IVANITCH,

I should never have set foot again in your house anyway; you need not have
troubled to soil paper about it.

Next week I am going to Simbirsk. Yevgany Nikolaitch remains your precious
and beloved friend. I wish you luck, and don't trouble about the galoshes.

IX

On the seventeenth of November Ivan Petrovitch received by post two letters
addressed to him. Opening the first letter, he took out a hasty and
carelessly written note. The handwriting was his wife's; it was addressed
to Yevgeny Nikolaitch, and dated August the fourth. There was nothing else
in the envelope. Ivan Petrovitch read:

       *       *       *       *       *

Good-bye, good-bye, Yevgeny Nikolaitch! The Lord reward you for this too.
May you be happy, but my lot is bitter, terribly bitter! It is your choice.
If it had not been for my aunt I should not have put such trust in you. Do
not laugh at me nor at my aunt. To-morrow is our wedding. Aunt is relieved
that a good man has been found, and that he will take me without a dowry. I
took a good look at him for the first time to-day. He seems good-natured.
They are hurrying me. Farewell, farewell.... My darling!! Think of me
sometimes; I shall never forget you. Farewell! I sign this last like my
first letter, do you remember?

TATYANA.

The second letter was as follows:

IVAN PETROVITCH,

To-morrow you will receive a new pair of galoshes. It is not my habit to
filch from other men's pockets, and I am not fond of picking up all sorts
of rubbish in the streets.

Yevgeny Nikolaitch is going to Simbirsk in a day or two on his
grandfather's business, and he has asked me to find a travelling companion
for him; wouldn't you like to take him with you?

AN UNPLEASANT PREDICAMENT

This unpleasant business occurred at the epoch when the regeneration of our
beloved fatherland and the struggle of her valiant sons towards new hopes
and destinies was beginning with irresistible force and with a touchingly
naïve impetuosity. One winter evening in that period, between eleven and
twelve o'clock, three highly respectable gentlemen were sitting in a
comfortable and even luxuriously furnished room in a handsome house of two
storeys on the Petersburg Side, and were engaged in a staid and edifying
conversation on a very interesting subject. These three gentlemen were all
of generals' rank. They were sitting round a little table, each in a soft
and handsome arm-chair, and as they talked, they quietly and luxuriously
sipped champagne. The bottle stood on the table on a silver stand with ice
round it. The fact was that the host, a privy councillor called Stepan
Nikiforovitch Nikiforov, an old bachelor of sixty-five, was celebrating his
removal into a house he had just bought, and as it happened, also his
birthday, which he had never kept before. The festivity, however, was not
on a very grand scale; as we have seen already, there were only two guests,
both of them former colleagues and former subordinates of Mr. Nikiforov;
that is, an actual civil councillor called Semyon Ivanovitch Shipulenko,
and another actual civil councillor, Ivan Ilyitch Pralinsky. They had
arrived to tea at nine o'clock, then had begun upon the wine, and knew that
at exactly half-past eleven they would have to set off home. Their host had
all his life been fond of regularity. A few words about him.

He had begun his career as a petty clerk with nothing to back him, had
quietly plodded on for forty-five years, knew very well what to work
towards, had no ambition to draw the stars down from heaven, though he had
two stars already, and particularly disliked expressing his own opinion on
any subject. He was honest, too, that is, it had not happened to him to do
anything particularly dishonest; he was a bachelor because he was an
egoist; he had plenty of brains, but he could not bear showing his
intelligence; he particularly disliked slovenliness and enthusiasm,
regarding it as moral slovenliness; and towards the end of his life had
become completely absorbed in a voluptuous, indolent comfort and systematic
solitude. Though he sometimes visited people of a rather higher rank than
his own, yet from his youth up he could never endure entertaining visitors
himself; and of late he had, if he did not play a game of patience, been
satisfied with the society of his dining-room clock, and would spend the
whole evening dozing in his arm-chair, listening placidly to its ticking
under its glass case on the chimney-piece. In appearance he was closely
shaven and extremely proper-looking, he was well-preserved, looking younger
than his age; he promised to go on living many years longer, and closely
followed the rules of the highest good breeding. His post was a fairly
comfortable one: he had to preside somewhere and to sign something. In
short, he was regarded as a first-rate man. He had only one passion, or
more accurately, one keen desire: that was, to have his own house, and a
house built like a gentleman's residence, not a commercial investment. His
desire was at last realised: he looked out and bought a house on the
Petersburg Side, a good way off, it is true, but it had a garden and was an
elegant house. The new owner decided that it was better for being a good
way off: he did not like entertaining at home, and for driving to see any
one or to the office he had a handsome carriage of a chocolate hue, a
coachman, Mihey, and two little but strong and handsome horses. All this
was honourably acquired by the careful frugality of forty years, so that
his heart rejoiced over it.

This was how it was that Stepan Nikiforovitch felt such pleasure in his
placid heart that he actually invited two friends to see him on his
birthday, which he had hitherto carefully concealed from his most intimate
acquaintances. He had special designs on one of these visitors. He lived in
the upper storey of his new house, and he wanted a tenant for the lower
half, which was built and arranged in exactly the same way. Stepan
Nikiforovitch was reckoning upon Semyon Ivanovitch Shipulenko, and had
twice that evening broached the subject in the course of conversation. But
Semyon Ivanovitch made no response. The latter, too, was a man who had
doggedly made a way for himself in the course of long years. He had black
hair and whiskers, and a face that always had a shade of jaundice. He was a
married man of morose disposition who liked to stay at home; he ruled his
household with a rod of iron; in his official duties he had the greatest
self-confidence. He, too, knew perfectly well what goal he was making for,
and better still, what he never would reach. He was in a good position, and
he was sitting tight there. Though he looked upon the new reforms with a
certain distaste, he was not particularly agitated about them: he was
extremely self-confident, and listened with a shade of ironical malice to
Ivan Ilyitch Pralinsky expatiating on new themes. All of them had been
drinking rather freely, however, so that Stepan Nikiforovitch himself
condescended to take part in a slight discussion with Mr. Pralinsky
concerning the latest reforms. But we must say a few words about his
Excellency, Mr. Pralinsky, especially as he is the chief hero of the
present story.

The actual civil councillor Ivan Ilyitch Pralinsky had only been "his
Excellency" for four months; in short, he was a young general. He was young
in years, too--only forty-three, no more--and he looked and liked to look
even younger. He was a tall, handsome man, he was smart in his dress, and
prided himself on its solid, dignified character; with great aplomb he
displayed an order of some consequence on his breast. From his earliest
childhood he had known how to acquire the airs and graces of aristocratic
society, and being a bachelor, dreamed of a wealthy and even aristocratic
bride. He dreamed of many other things, though he was far from being
stupid. At times he was a great talker, and even liked to assume a
parliamentary pose. He came of a good family. He was the son of a general,
and brought up in the lap of luxury; in his tender childhood he had been
dressed in velvet and fine linen, had been educated at an aristocratic
school, and though he acquired very little learning there he was successful
in the service, and had worked his way up to being a general. The
authorities looked upon him as a capable man, and even expected great
things from him in the future. Stepan Nikiforovitch, under whom Ivan
Ilyitch had begun his career in the service, and under whom he had remained
until he was made a general, had never considered him a good business man
and had no expectations of him whatever. What he liked in him was that he
belonged to a good family, had property--that is, a big block of buildings,
let out in flats, in charge of an overseer--was connected with persons of
consequence, and what was more, had a majestic bearing. Stepan
Nikiforovitch blamed him inwardly for excess of imagination and
instability. Ivan Ilyitch himself felt at times that he had too much
_amour-propre_ and even sensitiveness. Strange to say, he had attacks from
time to time of morbid tenderness of conscience and even a kind of faint
remorse. With bitterness and a secret soreness of heart he recognised now
and again that he did not fly so high as he imagined. At such moments he
sank into despondency, especially when he was suffering from hæmorrhoids,
called his life _une existence manquée_, and ceased--privately, of
course--to believe even in his parliamentary capacities, calling himself a
talker, a maker of phrases; and though all that, of course, did him great
credit, it did not in the least prevent him from raising his head again
half an hour later, and growing even more obstinately, even more
conceitedly self-confident, and assuring himself that he would yet succeed
in making his mark, and that he would be not only a great official, but a
statesman whom Russia would long remember. He actually dreamed at times of
monuments. From this it will be seen that Ivan Ilyitch aimed high, though
he hid his vague hopes and dreams deep in his heart, even with a certain
trepidation. In short, he was a good-natured man and a poet at heart. Of
late years these morbid moments of disillusionment had begun to be more
frequent. He had become peculiarly irritable, ready to take offence, and
was apt to take any contradiction as an affront. But reformed Russia gave
him great hopes. His promotion to general was the finishing touch. He was
roused; he held his head up. He suddenly began talking freely and
eloquently. He talked about the new ideas, which he very quickly and
unexpectedly made his own and professed with vehemence. He sought
opportunities for speaking, drove about the town, and in many places
succeeded in gaining the reputation of a desperate Liberal, which flattered
him greatly. That evening, after drinking four glasses, he was particularly
exuberant. He wanted on every point to confute Stepan Nikiforovitch, whom
he had not seen for some time past, and whom he had hitherto always
respected and even obeyed. He considered him for some reason reactionary,
and fell upon him with exceptional heat. Stepan Nikiforovitch hardly
answered him, but only listened slyly, though the subject interested him.
Ivan Ilyitch got hot, and in the heat of the discussion sipped his glass
more often than he ought to have done. Then Stepan Nikiforovitch took the
bottle and at once filled his glass again, which for some reason seemed to
offend Ivan Ilyitch, especially as Semyon Ivanovitch Shipulenko, whom he
particularly despised and indeed feared on account of his cynicism and
ill-nature, preserved a treacherous silence and smiled more frequently than
was necessary. "They seem to take me for a schoolboy," flashed across Ivan
Ilyitch's mind.

"No, it was time, high time," he went on hotly. "We have put it off too
long, and to my thinking humanity is the first consideration, humanity with
our inferiors, remembering that they, too, are men. Humanity will save
everything and bring out all that is...."

"He-he-he-he!" was heard from the direction of Semyon Ivanovitch.

"But why are you giving us such a talking to?" Stepan Nikiforovitch
protested at last, with an affable smile. "I must own, Ivan Ilyitch, I have
not been able to make out, so far, what you are maintaining. You advocate
humanity. That is love of your fellow-creatures, isn't it?"

"Yes, if you like. I...."

"Allow me! As far as I can see, that's not the only thing. Love of one's
fellow-creatures has always been fitting. The reform movement is not
confined to that. All sorts of questions have arisen relating to the
peasantry, the law courts, economics, government contracts, morals and ...
and ... and those questions are endless, and all together may give rise to
great upheavals, so to say. That is what we have been anxious about, and
not simply humanity...."

"Yes, the thing is a bit deeper than that," observed Semyon Ivanovitch.

"I quite understand, and allow me to observe, Semyon Ivanovitch, that I
can't agree to being inferior to you in depth of understanding," Ivan
Ilyitch observed sarcastically and with excessive sharpness. "However, I
will make so bold as to assert, Stepan Nikiforovitch, that you have not
understood me either...."

"No, I haven't."

"And yet I maintain and everywhere advance the idea that humanity and
nothing else with one's subordinates, from the official in one's department
down to the copying clerk, from the copying clerk down to the house serf,
from the servant down to the peasant--humanity, I say, may serve, so to
speak, as the corner-stone of the coming reforms and the reformation of
things in general. Why? Because. Take a syllogism. I am human, consequently
I am loved. I am loved, so confidence is felt in me. There is a feeling of
confidence, and so there is trust. There is trust, and so there is love ...
that is, no, I mean to say that if they trust me they will believe in the
reforms, they will understand, so to speak, the essential nature of them,
will, so to speak, embrace each other in a moral sense, and will settle the
whole business in a friendly way, fundamentally. What are you laughing at,
Semyon Ivanovitch? Can't you understand?"

Stepan Nikiforovitch raised his eyebrows without speaking; he was
surprised.

"I fancy I have drunk a little too much," said Semyon Ivanovitch
sarcastically, "and so I am a little slow of comprehension. Not quite all
my wits about me."

Ivan Ilyitch winced.

"We should break down," Stepan Nikiforovitch pronounced suddenly, after a
slight pause of hesitation.

"How do you mean we should break down?" asked Ivan Ilyitch, surprised at
Stepan Nikiforovitch's abrupt remark.

"Why, we should break under the strain." Stepan Nikiforovitch evidently did
not care to explain further.

"I suppose you are thinking of new wine in old bottles?" Ivan Ilyitch
replied, not without irony. "Well, I can answer for myself, anyway."

At that moment the clock struck half-past eleven.

"One sits on and on, but one must go at last," said Semyon Ivanovitch,
getting up. But Ivan Ilyitch was before him; he got up from the table and
took his sable cap from the chimney-piece. He looked as though he had been
insulted.

"So how is it to be, Semyon Ivanovitch? Will you think it over?" said
Stepan Nikiforovitch, as he saw the visitors out.

"About the flat, you mean? I'll think it over, I'll think it over."

"Well, when you have made up your mind, let me know as soon as possible."

"Still on business?" Mr. Pralinsky observed affably, in a slightly
ingratiating tone, playing with his hat. It seemed to him as though they
were forgetting him.

Stepan Nikiforovitch raised his eyebrows and remained mute, as a sign that
he would not detain his visitors. Semyon Ivanovitch made haste to bow
himself out.

"Well ... after that what is one to expect ... if you don't understand the
simple rules of good manners...." Mr. Pralinsky reflected to himself, and
held out his hand to Stepan Nikiforovitch in a particularly offhand way.

In the hall Ivan Ilyitch wrapped himself up in his light, expensive fur
coat; he tried for some reason not to notice Semyon Ivanovitch's shabby
raccoon, and they both began descending the stairs.

"The old man seemed offended," said Ivan Ilyitch to the silent Semyon
Ivanovitch.

"No, why?" answered the latter with cool composure.

"Servile flunkey," Ivan Ilyitch thought to himself.

They went out at the front door. Semyon Ivanovitch's sledge with a grey
ugly horse drove up.

"What the devil! What has Trifon done with my carriage?" cried Ivan
Ilyitch, not seeing his carriage.

The carriage was nowhere to be seen. Stepan Nikiforovitch's servant knew
nothing about it. They appealed to Varlam, Semyon Ivanovitch's coachman,
and received the answer that he had been standing there all the time and
that the carriage had been there, but now there was no sign of it.

"An unpleasant predicament," Mr. Shipulenko pronounced. "Shall I take you
home?"

"Scoundrelly people!" Mr. Pralinsky cried with fury. "He asked me, the
rascal, to let him go to a wedding close here in the Petersburg Side; some
crony of his was getting married, deuce take her! I sternly forbade him to
absent himself, and now I'll bet he has gone off there."

"He certainly has gone there, sir," observed Varlam; "but he promised to be
back in a minute, to be here in time, that is."

"Well, there it is! I had a presentiment that this would happen! I'll give
it to him!"

"You'd better give him a good flogging once or twice at the police station,
then he will do what you tell him," said Semyon Ivanovitch, as he wrapped
the rug round him.

"Please don't you trouble, Semyon Ivanovitch!"

"Well, won't you let me take you along?"

"_Merci, bon voyage._"

Semyon Ivanovitch drove off, while Ivan Ilyitch set off on foot along the
wooden pavement, conscious of a rather acute irritation.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Yes, indeed I'll give it to you now, you rogue! I am going on foot on
purpose to make you feel it, to frighten you! He will come back and hear
that his master has gone off on foot ... the blackguard!"

Ivan Ilyitch had never abused any one like this, but he was greatly
angered, and besides, there was a buzzing in his head. He was not given to
drink, so five or six glasses soon affected him. But the night was
enchanting. There was a frost, but it was remarkably still and there was no
wind. There was a clear, starry sky. The full moon was bathing the earth in
soft silver light. It was so lovely that after walking some fifty paces
Ivan Ilyitch almost forgot his troubles. He felt particularly pleased.
People quickly change from one mood to another when they are a little
drunk. He was even pleased with the ugly little wooden houses of the
deserted street.

"It's really a capital thing that I am walking," he thought; "it's a lesson
to Trifon and a pleasure to me. I really ought to walk oftener. And I shall
soon pick up a sledge on the Great Prospect. It's a glorious night. What
little houses they all are! I suppose small fry live here, clerks,
tradesmen, perhaps.... That Stepan Nikiforovitch! What reactionaries they
all are, those old fogies! Fogies, yes, _c'est le mot_. He is a sensible
man, though; he has that _bon sens_, sober, practical understanding of
things. But they are old, old. There is a lack of ... what is it? There is
a lack of something.... 'We shall break down.' What did he mean by that? He
actually pondered when he said it. He didn't understand me a bit. And yet
how could he help understanding? It was more difficult not to understand it
than to understand it. The chief thing is that I am convinced, convinced in
my soul. Humanity ... the love of one's kind. Restore a man to himself,
revive his personal dignity, and then ... when the ground is prepared, get
to work. I believe that's clear? Yes! Allow me, your Excellency; take a
syllogism, for instance: we meet, for instance, a clerk, a poor,
downtrodden clerk. 'Well ... who are you?' Answer: 'A clerk.' Very good, a
clerk; further: 'What sort of clerk are you?' Answer: 'I am such and such a
clerk,' he says. 'Are you in the service?' 'I am.' 'Do you want to be
happy?' 'I do.' 'What do you need for happiness?' 'This and that.' 'Why?'
'Because....' and there the man understands me with a couple of words, the
man's mine, the man is caught, so to speak, in a net, and I can do what I
like with him, that is, for his good. Horrid man that Semyon Ivanovitch!
And what a nasty phiz he has!... 'Flog him in the police station,' he said
that on purpose. No, you are talking rubbish; you can flog, but I'm not
going to; I shall punish Trifon with words, I shall punish him with
reproaches, he will feel it. As for flogging, h'm! ... it is an open
question, h'm!... What about going to Emerance? Oh, damnation take it, the
cursed pavement!" he cried out, suddenly tripping up. "And this is the
capital. Enlightenment! One might break one's leg. H'm! I detest that
Semyon Ivanovitch; a most revolting phiz. He was chuckling at me just now
when I said they would embrace each other in a moral sense. Well, and they
will embrace each other, and what's that to do with you? I am not going to
embrace you; I'd rather embrace a peasant.... If I meet a peasant, I shall
talk to him. I was drunk, though, and perhaps did not express myself
properly. Possibly I am not expressing myself rightly now.... H'm! I shall
never touch wine again. In the evening you babble, and next morning you are
sorry for it. After all, I am walking quite steadily.... But they are all
scoundrels, anyhow!"

So Ivan Ilyitch meditated incoherently and by snatches, as he went on
striding along the pavement. The fresh air began to affect him, set his
mind working. Five minutes later he would have felt soothed and sleepy. But
all at once, scarcely two paces from the Great Prospect, he heard music. He
looked round. On the other side of the street, in a very
tumble-down-looking long wooden house of one storey, there was a great
fête, there was the scraping of violins, and the droning of a double bass,
and the squeaky tooting of a flute playing a very gay quadrille tune. Under
the windows stood an audience, mainly of women in wadded pelisses with
kerchiefs on their heads; they were straining every effort to see something
through a crack in the shutters. Evidently there was a gay party within.
The sound of the thud of dancing feet reached the other side of the street.
Ivan Ilyitch saw a policeman standing not far off, and went up to him.

"Whose house is that, brother?" he asked, flinging his expensive fur coat
open, just far enough to allow the policeman to see the imposing decoration
on his breast.

"It belongs to the registration clerk Pseldonimov," answered the
policeman, drawing himself up instantly, discerning the decoration.

"Pseldonimov? Bah! Pseldonimov! What is he up to? Getting married?"

"Yes, your Honour, to a daughter of a titular councillor, Mlekopitaev, a
titular councillor ... used to serve in the municipal department. That
house goes with the bride."

"So that now the house is Pseldonimov's and not Mlekopitaev's?"

"Yes, Pseldonimov's, your Honour. It was Mlekopitaev's, but now it is
Pseldonimov's."

"H'm! I am asking you, my man, because I am his chief. I am a general in
the same office in which Pseldonimov serves."

"Just so, your Excellency."

The policeman drew himself up more stiffly than ever, while Ivan Ilyitch
seemed to ponder. He stood still and meditated....

Yes, Pseldonimov really was in his department and in his own office; he
remembered that. He was a little clerk with a salary of ten roubles a
month. As Mr. Pralinsky had received his department very lately he might
not have remembered precisely all his subordinates, but Pseldonimov he
remembered just because of his surname. It had caught his eye from the very
first, so that at the time he had had the curiosity to look with special
attention at the possessor of such a surname. He remembered now a very
young man with a long hooked nose, with tufts of flaxen hair, lean and
ill-nourished, in an impossible uniform, and with unmentionables so
impossible as to be actually unseemly; he remembered how the thought had
flashed through his mind at the time: shouldn't he give the poor fellow ten
roubles for Christmas, to spend on his wardrobe? But as the poor fellow's
face was too austere, and his expression extremely unprepossessing, even
exciting repulsion, the good-natured idea somehow faded away of itself, so
Pseldonimov did not get his tip. He had been the more surprised when this
same Pseldonimov had not more than a week before asked for leave to be
married. Ivan Ilyitch remembered that he had somehow not had time to go
into the matter, so that the matter of the marriage had been settled
offhand, in haste. But yet he did remember exactly that Pseldonimov was
receiving a wooden house and four hundred roubles in cash as dowry with his
bride. The circumstance had surprised him at the time; he remembered that
he had made a slight jest over the juxtaposition of the names Pseldonimov
and Mlekopitaev. He remembered all that clearly.

He recalled it, and grew more and more pensive. It is well known that whole
trains of thought sometimes pass through our brains instantaneously as
though they were sensations without being translated into human speech,
still less into literary language. But we will try to translate these
sensations of our hero's, and present to the reader at least the kernel of
them, so to say, what was most essential and nearest to reality in them.
For many of our sensations when translated into ordinary language seem
absolutely unreal. That is why they never find expression, though every one
has them. Of course Ivan Ilyitch's sensations and thoughts were a little
incoherent. But you know the reason.

"Why," flashed through his mind, "here we all talk and talk, but when it
comes to action--it all ends in nothing. Here, for instance, take this
Pseldonimov: he has just come from his wedding full of hope and excitement,
looking forward to his wedding feast.... This is one of the most blissful
days of his life.... Now he is busy with his guests, is giving a banquet, a
modest one, poor, but gay and full of genuine gladness.... What if he knew
that at this very moment I, I, his superior, his chief, am standing by his
house listening to the music? Yes, really how would he feel? No, what would
he feel if I suddenly walked in? H'm!... Of course at first he would be
frightened, he would be dumb with embarrassment.... I should be in his way,
and perhaps should upset everything. Yes, that would be so if any other
general went in, but not I.... That's a fact, any one else, but not I....

"Yes, Stepan Nikiforovitch! You did not understand me just now, but here is
an example ready for you.

"Yes, we all make an outcry about acting humanely, but we are not capable
of heroism, of fine actions.

"What sort of heroism? This sort. Consider: in the existing relations of
the various members of society, for me, for me, after midnight to go in to
the wedding of my subordinate, a registration clerk, at ten roubles the
month--why, it would mean embarrassment, a revolution, the last days of
Pompeii, a nonsensical folly. No one would understand it. Stepan
Nikiforovitch would die before he understood it. Why, he said we should
break down. Yes, but that's you old people, inert, paralytic people; but I
shan't break down, I will transform the last day of Pompeii to a day of the
utmost sweetness for my subordinate, and a wild action to an action normal,
patriarchal, lofty and moral. How? Like this. Kindly listen....

"Here ... I go in, suppose; they are amazed, leave off dancing, look wildly
at me, draw back. Quite so, but at once I speak out: I go straight up to
the frightened Pseldonimov, and with a most cordial, affable smile, in the
simplest words, I say: 'This is how it is, I have been at his Excellency
Stepan Nikiforovitch's. I expect you know, close here in the
neighbourhood....' Well, then, lightly, in a laughing way, I shall tell him
of my adventure with Trifon. From Trifon I shall pass on to saying how I
walked here on foot.... 'Well, I heard music, I inquired of a policeman,
and learned, brother, that it was your wedding. Let me go in, I thought, to
my subordinate's; let me see how my clerks enjoy themselves and ...
celebrate their wedding. I suppose you won't turn me out?' Turn me out!
What a word for a subordinate! How the devil could he dream of turning me
out! I fancy that he would be half crazy, that he would rush headlong to
seat me in an arm-chair, would be trembling with delight, would hardly know
what he was doing for the first minute!

"Why, what can be simpler, more elegant than such an action? Why did I go
in? That's another question! That is, so to say, the moral aspect of the
question. That's the pith.

"H'm, what was I thinking about, yes!

"Well, of course they will make me sit down with the most important guest,
some titular councillor or a relation who's a retired captain with a red
nose. Gogol describes these eccentrics so capitally. Well, I shall make
acquaintance, of course, with the bride, I shall compliment her, I shall
encourage the guests. I shall beg them not to stand on ceremony. To enjoy
themselves, to go on dancing. I shall make jokes, I shall laugh; in fact, I
shall be affable and charming. I am always affable and charming when I am
pleased with myself.... H'm ... the point is that I believe I am still a
little, well, not drunk exactly, but ...

"Of course, as a gentleman I shall be quite on an equality with them,
and shall not expect any especial marks of.... But morally, morally,
it is a different matter; they will understand and appreciate it....
My actions will evoke their nobler feelings.... Well, I shall stay for
half an hour ... even for an hour; I shall leave, of course, before
supper; but they will be bustling about, baking and roasting, they
will be making low bows, but I will only drink a glass, congratulate
them and refuse supper. I shall say--'business.' And as soon as I
pronounce the word 'business,' all of them will at once have sternly
respectful faces. By that I shall delicately remind them that there is
a difference between them and me. The earth and the sky. It is not
that I want to impress that on them, but it must be done ... it's
even essential in a moral sense, when all is said and done. I shall
smile at once, however, I shall even laugh, and then they will all
pluck up courage again.... I shall jest a little again with the bride;
h'm!... I may even hint that I shall come again in just nine months to
stand godfather, he-he! And she will be sure to be brought to bed by
then. They multiply, you know, like rabbits. And they will all roar
with laughter and the bride will blush; I shall kiss her feelingly on
the forehead, even give her my blessing ... and next day my exploit
will be known at the office. Next day I shall be stern again, next day
I shall be exacting again, even implacable, but they will all know
what I am like. They will know my heart, they will know my essential
nature: 'He is stern as chief, but as a man he is an angel!' And I
shall have conquered them; I shall have captured them by one little
act which would never have entered your head; they would be mine; I
should be their father, they would be my children.... Come now, your
Excellency Stepan Nikiforovitch, go and do likewise....

"But do you know, do you understand, that Pseldonimov will tell his
children how the General himself feasted and even drank at his wedding! Why
you know those children would tell their children, and those would tell
their grandchildren as a most sacred story that a grand gentleman, a
statesman (and I shall be all that by then) did them the honour, and so on,
and so on. Why, I am morally elevating the humiliated, I restore him to
himself.... Why, he gets a salary of ten roubles a month!... If I repeat
this five or ten times, or something of the sort, I shall gain popularity
all over the place.... My name will be printed on the hearts of all, and
the devil only knows what will come of that popularity!..."

These, or something like these, were Ivan Ilyitch's reflections, (a man
says all sorts of things sometimes to himself, gentlemen, especially when
he is in rather an eccentric condition). All these meditations passed
through his mind in something like half a minute, and of course he might
have confined himself to these dreams and, after mentally putting Stepan
Nikiforovitch to shame, have gone very peacefully home and to bed. And he
would have done well. But the trouble of it was that the moment was an
eccentric one.

As ill-luck would have it, at that very instant the self-satisfied faces of
Stepan Nikiforovitch and Semyon Ivanovitch suddenly rose before his heated
imagination.

"We shall break down!" repeated Stepan Nikiforovitch, smiling disdainfully.

"He-he-he," Semyon Ivanovitch seconded him with his nastiest smile.

"Well, we'll see whether we do break down!" Ivan Ilyitch said resolutely,
with a rush of heat to his face.

He stepped down from the pavement and with resolute steps went straight
across the street towards the house of his registration clerk Pseldonimov.

       *       *       *       *       *

His star carried him away. He walked confidently in at the open gate and
contemptuously thrust aside with his foot the shaggy, husky little
sheep-dog who flew at his legs with a hoarse bark, more as a matter of form
than with any real intention. Along a wooden plank he went to the covered
porch which led like a sentry box to the yard, and by three decaying wooden
steps he went up to the tiny entry. Here, though a tallow candle or
something in the way of a night-light was burning somewhere in a corner, it
did not prevent Ivan Ilyitch from putting his left foot just as it was, in
its galosh, into a galantine which had been stood out there to cool. Ivan
Ilyitch bent down, and looking with curiosity, he saw that there were two
other dishes of some sort of jelly and also two shapes apparently of
blancmange. The squashed galantine embarrassed him, and for one brief
instant the thought flashed through his mind, whether he should not slink
away at once. But he considered this too low. Reflecting that no one would
have seen him, and that they would never think he had done it, he hurriedly
wiped his galosh to conceal all traces, fumbled for the felt-covered door,
opened it and found himself in a very little ante-room. Half of it was
literally piled up with greatcoats, wadded jackets, cloaks, capes, scarves
and galoshes. In the other half the musicians had been installed; two
violins, a flute, and a double bass, a band of four, picked up, of course,
in the street. They were sitting at an unpainted wooden table, lighted by a
single tallow candle, and with the utmost vigour were sawing out the last
figure of the quadrille. From the open door into the drawing-room one could
see the dancers in the midst of dust, tobacco smoke and fumes. There was a
frenzy of gaiety. There were sounds of laughter, shouts and shrieks from
the ladies. The gentlemen stamped like a squadron of horses. Above all the
Bedlam there rang out words of command from the leader of the dance,
probably an extremely free and easy, and even unbuttoned gentleman:
"Gentlemen advance, ladies' chain, set to partners!" and so on, and so on.
Ivan Ilyitch in some excitement cast off his coat and galoshes, and with
his cap in his hand went into the room. He was no longer reflecting,
however.

For the first minute nobody noticed him; all were absorbed in dancing the
quadrille to the end. Ivan Ilyitch stood as though entranced, and could
make out nothing definite in the chaos. He caught glimpses of ladies'
dresses, of gentlemen with cigarettes between their teeth. He caught a
glimpse of a lady's pale blue scarf which flicked him on the nose. After
the wearer a medical student, with his hair blown in all directions on his
head, pranced by in wild delight and jostled violently against him on the
way. He caught a glimpse, too, of an officer of some description, who
looked half a mile high. Some one in an unnaturally shrill voice shouted,
"O-o-oh, Pseldonimov!" as the speaker flew by stamping. It was sticky under
Ivan Ilyitch's feet; evidently the floor had been waxed. In the room, which
was a very small one, there were about thirty people.

But a minute later the quadrille was over, and almost at once the very
thing Ivan Ilyitch had pictured when he was dreaming on the pavement took
place.

A stifled murmur, a strange whisper passed over the whole company,
including the dancers, who had not yet had time to take breath and wipe
their perspiring faces. All eyes, all faces began quickly turning towards
the newly arrived guest. Then they all seemed to draw back a little and
beat a retreat. Those who had not noticed him were pulled by their coats or
dresses and informed. They looked round and at once beat a retreat with the
others. Ivan Ilyitch was still standing at the door without moving a step
forward, and between him and the company there stretched an ever widening
empty space of floor strewn with countless sweet-meat wrappings, bits of
paper and cigarette ends. All at once a young man in a uniform, with a
shock of flaxen hair and a hooked nose, stepped timidly out into that empty
space. He moved forward, hunched up, and looked at the unexpected visitor
exactly with the expression with which a dog looks at its master when the
latter has called him up and is going to kick him.

"Good evening, Pseldonimov, do you know me?" said Ivan Ilyitch, and felt at
the same minute that he had said this very awkwardly; he felt, too, that he
was perhaps doing something horribly stupid at that moment.

"You-our Ex-cel-len-cy!" muttered Pseldonimov.

"To be sure.... I have called in to see you quite by chance, my friend, as
you can probably imagine...."

But evidently Pseldonimov could imagine nothing. He stood with staring eyes
in the utmost perplexity.

"You won't turn me out, I suppose.... Pleased or not, you must make a
visitor welcome...." Ivan Ilyitch went on, feeling that he was confused to
a point of unseemly feebleness; that he was trying to smile and was utterly
unable; that the humorous reference to Stepan Nikiforovitch and Trifon was
becoming more and more impossible. But as ill luck would have it,
Pseldonimov did not recover from his stupefaction, and still gazed at him
with a perfectly idiotic air. Ivan Ilyitch winced, he felt that in another
minute something incredibly foolish would happen.

"I am not in the way, am I?... I'll go away," he faintly articulated, and
there was a tremor at the right corner of his mouth.

But Pseldonimov had recovered himself.

"Good heavens, your Excellency ... the honour...." he muttered, bowing
hurriedly. "Graciously sit down, your Excellency...." And recovering
himself still further, he motioned him with both hands to a sofa before
which a table had been moved away to make room for the dancing.

Ivan Ilyitch felt relieved and sank on the sofa; at once some one flew to
move the table up to him. He took a cursory look round and saw that he was
the only person sitting down, all the others were standing, even the
ladies. A bad sign. But it was not yet time to reassure and encourage them.
The company still held back, while before him, bending double, stood
Pseldonimov, utterly alone, still completely at a loss and very far from
smiling. It was horrid; in short, our hero endured such misery at that
moment that his Haroun al-Raschid-like descent upon his subordinates for
the sake of principle might well have been reckoned an heroic action. But
suddenly a little figure made its appearance beside Pseldonimov, and began
bowing. To his inexpressible pleasure and even happiness, Ivan Ilyitch at
once recognised him as the head clerk of his office, Akim Petrovitch
Zubikov, and though, of course, he was not acquainted with him, he knew him
to be a businesslike and exemplary clerk. He got up at once and held out
his hand to Akim Petrovitch--his whole hand, not two fingers. The latter
took it in both of his with the deepest respect. The general was
triumphant, the situation was saved.

And now indeed Pseldonimov was no longer, so to say, the second person, but
the third. It was possible to address his remarks to the head clerk in his
necessity, taking him for an acquaintance and even an intimate one, and
Pseldonimov meanwhile could only be silent and be in a tremor of reverence.
So that the proprieties were observed. And some explanation was essential,
Ivan Ilyitch felt that; he saw that all the guests were expecting
something, that the whole household was gathered together in the doorway,
almost creeping, climbing over one another in their anxiety to see and hear
him. What was horrid was that the head clerk in his foolishness remained
standing.

"Why are you standing?" said Ivan Ilyitch, awkwardly motioning him to a
seat on the sofa beside him.

"Oh, don't trouble.... I'll sit here." And Akim Petrovitch hurriedly sat
down on a chair, almost as it was being put for him by Pseldonimov, who
remained obstinately standing.

"Can you imagine what happened," addressing himself exclusively to Akim
Petrovitch in a rather quavering, though free and easy voice. He even
drawled out his words, with special emphasis on some syllables, pronounced
the vowel _ah_ like _eh_; in short, felt and was conscious that he was
being affected but could not control himself: some external force was at
work. He was painfully conscious of many things at that moment.

"Can you imagine, I have only just come from Stepan Nikiforovitch
Nikiforov's, you have heard of him perhaps, the privy councillor. You
know ... on that special committee...."

Akim Petrovitch bent his whole person forward respectfully: as much as to
say, "Of course we have heard of him."

"He is your neighbor now," Ivan Ilyitch went on, for one instant for the
sake of ease and good manners addressing Pseldonimov, but he quickly turned
away again, on seeing from the latter's eyes that it made absolutely no
difference to him.

"The old fellow, as you know, has been dreaming all his life of buying
himself a house.... Well, and he has bought it. And a very pretty house
too. Yes.... And to-day was his birthday and he had never celebrated it
before, he used even to keep it secret from us, he was too stingy to keep
it, he-he. But now he is so delighted over his new house, that he invited
Semyon Ivanovitch Shipulenko and me, you know."

Akim Petrovitch bent forward again. He bent forward zealously. Ivan Ilyitch
felt somewhat comforted. It had struck him, indeed, that the head clerk
possibly was guessing that he was an indispensable _point d'appui_ for his
Excellency at that moment. That would have been more horrid than anything.

"So we sat together, the three of us, he gave us champagne, we talked about
problems ... even dis-pu-ted.... He-he!"

Akim Petrovitch raised his eyebrows respectfully.

"Only that is not the point. When I take leave of him at last--he is a
punctual old fellow, goes to bed early, you know, in his old age--I go
out.... My Trifon is nowhere to be seen! I am anxious, I make inquiries.
'What has Trifon done with the carriage?' It comes out that hoping I should
stay on, he had gone off to the wedding of some friend of his, or sister
maybe.... Goodness only knows. Somewhere here on the Petersburg Side. And
took the carriage with him while he was about it."

Again for the sake of good manners the general glanced in the direction of
Pseldonimov. The latter promptly gave a wriggle, but not at all the sort
of wriggle the general would have liked. "He has no sympathy, no heart,"
flashed through his brain.

"You don't say so!" said Akim Petrovitch, greatly impressed. A faint murmur
of surprise ran through all the crowd.

"Can you fancy my position...." (Ivan Ilyitch glanced at them all.) "There
was nothing for it, I set off on foot, I thought I would trudge to the
Great Prospect, and there find some cabby ... he-he!"

"He-he-he!" Akim Petrovitch echoed. Again a murmur, but this time on a more
cheerful note, passed through the crowd. At that moment the chimney of a
lamp on the wall broke with a crash. Some one rushed zealously to see to
it. Pseldonimov started and looked sternly at the lamp, but the general
took no notice of it, and all was serene again.

"I walked ... and the night was so lovely, so still. All at once I heard a
band, stamping, dancing. I inquired of a policeman; it is Pseldonimov's
wedding. Why, you are giving a ball to all Petersburg Side, my friend.
Ha-ha." He turned to Pseldonimov again.

"He-he-he! To be sure," Akim Petrovitch responded. There was a stir among
the guests again, but what was most foolish was that Pseldonimov, though he
bowed, did not even now smile, but seemed as though he were made of wood.
"Is he a fool or what?" thought Ivan Ilyitch. "He ought to have smiled at
that point, the ass, and everything would have run easily." There was a
fury of impatience in his heart.

"I thought I would go in to see my clerk. He won't turn me out I expect ...
pleased or not, one must welcome a guest. You must please excuse me, my
dear fellow. If I am in the way, I will go ... I only came in to have a
look...."

But little by little a general stir was beginning.

Akim Petrovitch looked at him with a mawkishly sweet expression as though
to say, "How could your Excellency be in the way?" all the guests stirred
and began to display the first symptoms of being at their ease. Almost all
the ladies sat down. A good sign and a reassuring one. The boldest spirits
among them fanned themselves with their handkerchiefs. One of them in a
shabby velvet dress said something with intentional loudness. The officer
addressed by her would have liked to answer her as loudly, but seeing that
they were the only ones speaking aloud, he subsided. The men, for the most
part government clerks, with two or three students among them, looked at
one another as though egging each other on to unbend, cleared their
throats, and began to move a few steps in different directions. No one,
however, was particularly timid, but they were all restive, and almost all
of them looked with a hostile expression at the personage who had burst in
upon them, to destroy their gaiety. The officer, ashamed of his cowardice,
began to edge up to the table.

"But I say, my friend, allow me to ask you your name," Ivan Ilyitch asked
Pseldonimov.

"Porfiry Petrovitch, your Excellency," answered the latter, with staring
eyes as though on parade.

"Introduce me, Porfiry Petrovitch, to your bride.... Take me to her ...
I...."

And he showed signs of a desire to get up. But Pseldonimov ran full speed
to the drawing-room. The bride, however, was standing close by at the door,
but as soon as she heard herself mentioned, she hid. A minute later
Pseldonimov led her up by the hand. The guests all moved aside to make way
for them. Ivan Ilyitch got up solemnly and addressed himself to her with a
most affable smile.

"Very, very much pleased to make your acquaintance," he pronounced with a
most aristocratic half-bow, "especially on such a day...."

He gave a meaning smile. There was an agreeable flutter among the ladies.

"_Charmé_," the lady in the velvet dress pronounced, almost aloud.

The bride was a match for Pseldonimov. She was a thin little lady not more
than seventeen, pale, with a very small face and a sharp little nose. Her
quick, active little eyes were not at all embarrassed; on the contrary,
they looked at him steadily and even with a shade of resentment. Evidently
Pseldonimov was marrying her for her beauty. She was dressed in a white
muslin dress over a pink slip. Her neck was thin, and she had a figure like
a chicken's with the bones all sticking out. She was not equal to making
any response to the general's affability.

"But she is very pretty," he went on, in an undertone, as though addressing
Pseldonimov only, though intentionally speaking so that the bride could
hear.

But on this occasion, too, Pseldonimov again answered absolutely nothing,
and did not even wriggle. Ivan Ilyitch fancied that there was something
cold, suppressed in his eyes, as though he had something peculiarly
malignant in his mind. And yet he had at all costs to wring some
sensibility out of him. Why, that was the object of his coming.

"They are a couple, though!" he thought.

And he turned again to the bride, who had seated herself beside him on the
sofa, but in answer to his two or three questions he got nothing but "yes"
or "no," and hardly that.

"If only she had been overcome with confusion," he thought to himself,
"then I should have begun to banter her. But as it is, my position is
impossible."

And as ill-luck would have it, Akim Petrovitch, too, was mute; though this
was only due to his foolishness, it was still unpardonable.

"My friends! Haven't I perhaps interfered with your enjoyment?" he said,
addressing the whole company.

He felt that the very palms of his hands were perspiring.

"No ... don't trouble, your Excellency; we are beginning directly, but
now ... we are getting cool," answered the officer.

The bride looked at him with pleasure; the officer was not old, and wore
the uniform of some branch of the service. Pseldonimov was still standing
in the same place, bending forward, and it seemed as though his hooked nose
stood out further than ever. He looked and listened like a footman standing
with the greatcoat on his arm, waiting for the end of his master's farewell
conversation. Ivan Ilyitch made this comparison himself. He was losing his
head; he felt that he was in an awkward position, that the ground was
giving way under his feet, that he had got in somewhere and could not find
his way out, as though he were in the dark.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly the guests all moved aside, and a short, thick-set, middle-aged
woman made her appearance, dressed plainly though she was in her best, with
a big shawl on her shoulders, pinned at her throat, and on her head a cap
to which she was evidently unaccustomed. In her hands she carried a small
round tray on which stood a full but uncorked bottle of champagne and two
glasses, neither more nor less. Evidently the bottle was intended for only
two guests.

The middle-aged lady approached the general.

"Don't look down on us, your Excellency," she said, bowing. "Since you have
deigned to do my son the honour of coming to his wedding, we beg you
graciously to drink to the health of the young people. Do not disdain us;
do us the honour."

Ivan Ilyitch clutched at her as though she were his salvation. She was by
no means an old woman--forty-five or forty-six, not more; but she had such
a good-natured, rosy-cheeked, such a round and candid Russian face, she
smiled so good-humouredly, bowed so simply, that Ivan Ilyitch was almost
comforted and began to hope again.

"So you are the mo-other of your so-on?" he said, getting up from the sofa.

"Yes, my mother, your Excellency," mumbled Pseldonimov, craning his long
neck and thrusting forward his long nose again.

"Ah! I am delighted--de-ligh-ted to make your acquaintance."

"Do not refuse us, your Excellency."

"With the greatest pleasure."

The tray was put down. Pseldonimov dashed forward to pour out the wine.
Ivan Ilyitch, still standing, took the glass.

"I am particularly, particularly glad on this occasion, that I can ..." he
began, "that I can ... testify before all of you.... In short, as your
chief ... I wish you, madam" (he turned to the bride), "and you, friend
Porfiry, I wish you the fullest, completest happiness for many long years."

And he positively drained the glass with feeling, the seventh he had drunk
that evening. Pseldonimov looked at him gravely and even sullenly. The
general was beginning to feel an agonising hatred of him.

"And that scarecrow" (he looked at the officer) "keeps obtruding himself.
He might at least have shouted 'hurrah!' and it would have gone off, it
would have gone off...."

"And you too, Akim Petrovitch, drink a glass to their health," added the
mother, addressing the head clerk. "You are his superior, he is under you.
Look after my boy, I beg you as a mother. And don't forget us in the
future, our good, kind friend, Akim Petrovitch."

"How nice these old Russian women are," thought Ivan Ilyitch. "She has
livened us all up. I have always loved the democracy...."

At that moment another tray was brought to the table; it was brought in by
a maid wearing a crackling cotton dress that had never been washed, and a
crinoline. She could hardly grasp the tray in both hands, it was so big. On
it there were numbers of plates of apples, sweets, fruit meringues and
fruit cheeses, walnuts and so on, and so on. The tray had been till then in
the drawing-room for the delectation of all the guests, and especially the
ladies. But now it was brought to the general alone.

"Do not disdain our humble fare, your Excellency. What we have we are
pleased to offer," the old lady repeated, bowing.

"Delighted!" said Ivan Ilyitch, and with real pleasure took a walnut and
cracked it between his fingers. He had made up his mind to win popularity
at all costs.

Meantime the bride suddenly giggled.

"What is it?" asked Ivan Ilyitch with a smile, encouraged by this sign of
life.

"Ivan Kostenkinitch, here, makes me laugh," she answered, looking down.

The general distinguished, indeed, a flaxen-headed young man, exceedingly
good-looking, who was sitting on a chair at the other end of the sofa,
whispering something to Madame Pseldonimov. The young man stood up. He was
apparently very young and very shy.

"I was telling the lady about a 'dream book,' your Excellency," he muttered
as though apologising.

"About what sort of 'dream book'?" asked Ivan Ilyitch condescendingly.

"There is a new 'dream book,' a literary one. I was telling the lady that
to dream of Mr. Panaev means spilling coffee on one's shirt front."

"What innocence!" thought Ivan Ilyitch, with positive annoyance.

Though the young man flushed very red as he said it, he was incredibly
delighted that he had said this about Mr. Panaev.

"To be sure, I have heard of it...." responded his Excellency.

"No, there is something better than that," said a voice quite close to Ivan
Ilyitch. "There is a new encyclopædia being published, and they say Mr.
Kraevsky will write articles... and satirical literature."

This was said by a young man who was by no means embarrassed, but rather
free and easy. He was wearing gloves and a white waistcoat, and carried a
hat in his hand. He did not dance, and looked condescending, for he was on
the staff of a satirical paper called _The Firebrand_, and gave himself
airs accordingly. He had come casually to the wedding, invited as an
honoured guest of the Pseldonimovs', with whom he was on intimate terms and
with whom only a year before he had lived in very poor lodgings, kept by a
German woman. He drank vodka, however, and for that purpose had more than
once withdrawn to a snug little back room to which all the guests knew
their way. The general disliked him extremely.

"And the reason that's funny," broke in joyfully the flaxen-headed young
man, who had talked of the shirt front and at whom the young man on the
comic paper looked with hatred in consequence, "it's funny, your
Excellency, because it is supposed by the writer that Mr. Kraevsky does not
know how to spell, and thinks that 'satirical' ought to be written with a
'y' instead of an 'i.'"

But the poor young man scarcely finished his sentence; he could see from
his eyes that the general knew all this long ago, for the general himself
looked embarrassed, and evidently because he knew it. The young man seemed
inconceivably ashamed. He succeeded in effacing himself completely, and
remained very melancholy all the rest of the evening.

But to make up for that the young man on the staff of the _Firebrand_ came
up nearer, and seemed to be intending to sit down somewhere close by. Such
free and easy manners struck Ivan Ilyitch as rather shocking.

"Tell me, please, Porfiry," he began, in order to say something, "why--I
have always wanted to ask you about it in person--why you are called
Pseldonimov instead of Pseudonimov? Your name surely must be Pseudonimov."

"I cannot inform you exactly, your Excellency," said Pseldonimov.

"It must have been that when his father went into the service they made a
mistake in his papers, so that he has remained now Pseldonimov," put in
Akim Petrovitch. "That does happen."

"Un-doubted-ly," the general said with warmth, "un-doubted-ly; for only
think, Pseudonimov comes from the literary word pseudonym, while
Pseldonimov means nothing."

"Due to foolishness," added Akim Petrovitch.

"You mean what is due to foolishness?"

"The Russian common people in their foolishness often alter letters, and
sometimes pronounce them in their own way. For instance, they say nevalid
instead of invalid."

"Oh, yes, nevalid, he-he-he...."

"Mumber, too, they say, your Excellency," boomed out the tall officer, who
had long been itching to distinguish himself in some way.

"What do you mean by mumber?"

"Mumber instead of number, your Excellency."

"Oh, yes, mumber ... instead of number.... To be sure, to be sure....
He-he-he!" Ivan Ilyitch had to do a chuckle for the benefit of the officer
too.

The officer straightened his tie.

"Another thing they say is nigh by," the young man on the comic paper put
in. But his Excellency tried not to hear this. His chuckles were not at
everybody's disposal.

"Nigh by, instead of near," the young man on the comic paper persisted, in
evident irritation.

Ivan Ilyitch looked at him sternly.

"Come, why persist?" Pseldonimov whispered to him.

"Why, I was talking. Mayn't one speak?" the latter protested in a whisper;
but he said no more and with secret fury walked out of the room.

He made his way straight to the attractive little back room where, for the
benefit of the dancing gentlemen, vodka of two sorts, salt fish, caviare
into slices and a bottle of very strong sherry of Russian make had been set
early in the evening on a little table, covered with a Yaroslav cloth. With
anger in his heart he was pouring himself out a glass of vodka, when
suddenly the medical student with the dishevelled locks, the foremost
dancer and cutter of capers at Pseldonimov's ball, rushed in. He fell on
the decanter with greedy haste.

"They are just going to begin!" he said rapidly, helping himself. "Come and
look, I am going to dance a solo on my head; after supper I shall risk the
fish dance. It is just the thing for the wedding. So to speak, a friendly
hint to Pseldonimov. She's a jolly creature that Kleopatra Semyonovna, you
can venture on anything you like with her."

"He's a reactionary," said the young man on the comic paper gloomily, as he
tossed off his vodka.

"Who is a reactionary?"

"Why, the personage before whom they set those sweet-meats. He's a
reactionary, I tell you."

"What nonsense!" muttered the student, and he rushed out of the room,
hearing the opening bars of the quadrille.

Left alone, the young man on the comic paper poured himself out another
glass to give himself more assurance and independence; he drank and ate a
snack of something, and never had the actual civil councillor Ivan Ilyitch
made for himself a bitterer foe more implacably bent on revenge than was
the young man on the staff of the _Firebrand_ whom he had so slighted,
especially after the latter had drunk two glasses of vodka. Alas! Ivan
Ilyitch suspected nothing of the sort. He did not suspect another
circumstance of prime importance either, which had an influence on the
mutual relations of the guests and his Excellency. The fact was that though
he had given a proper and even detailed explanation of his presence at his
clerk's wedding, this explanation did not really satisfy any one, and the
visitors were still embarrassed. But suddenly everything was transformed as
though by magic, all were reassured and ready to enjoy themselves, to
laugh, to shriek; to dance, exactly as though the unexpected visitor were
not in the room. The cause of it was a rumour, a whisper, a report which
spread in some unknown way that the visitor was not quite ... it
seemed--was, in fact, "a little top-heavy." And though this seemed at first
a horrible calumny, it began by degrees to appear to be justified; suddenly
everything became clear. What was more, they felt all at once
extraordinarily free. And it was just at this moment that the quadrille for
which the medical student was in such haste, the last before supper, began.

And just as Ivan Ilyitch meant to address the bride again, intending to
provoke her with some innuendo, the tall officer suddenly dashed up to her
and with a flourish dropped on one knee before her. She immediately jumped
up from the sofa, and whisked off with him to take her place in the
quadrille. The officer did not even apologise, and she did not even glance
at the general as she went away; she seemed, in fact, relieved to escape.

"After all she has a right to be,' thought Ivan Ilyitch, 'and of course
they don't know how to behave.' "Hm! Don't you stand on ceremony, friend
Porfiry," he said, addressing Pseldonimov. "Perhaps you have ...
arrangements to make ... or something ... please don't put yourself out."
'Why does he keep guard over me?'" he thought to himself.

Pseldonimov, with his long neck and his eyes fixed intently upon him,
began to be insufferable. In fact, all this was not the thing, not the
thing at all, but Ivan Ilyitch was still far from admitting this.

       *       *       *       *       *

The quadrille began.

"Will you allow me, your Excellency?" asked Akim Petrovitch, holding the
bottle respectfully in his hands and preparing to pour from it into his
Excellency's glass.

"I ... I really don't know, whether...."

But Akim Petrovitch, with reverent and radiant face, was already filling
the glass. After filling the glass, he proceeded, writhing and wriggling,
as it were stealthily, as it were furtively, to pour himself out some, with
this difference, that he did not fill his own glass to within a finger
length of the top, and this seemed somehow more respectful. He was like a
woman in travail as he sat beside his chief. What could he talk about,
indeed? Yet to entertain his Excellency was an absolute duty since he had
the honour of keeping him company. The champagne served as a resource, and
his Excellency, too, was pleased that he had filled his glass--not for the
sake of the champagne, for it was warm and perfectly abominable, but just
morally pleased.

"The old chap would like to have a drink himself," thought Ivan Ilyitch,
"but he doesn't venture till I do. I mustn't prevent him. And indeed it
would be absurd for the bottle to stand between as untouched."

He took a sip, anyway it seemed better than sitting doing nothing.

"I am here," he said, with pauses and emphasis, "I am here, you know, so to
speak, accidentally, and, of course, it may be ... that some people would
consider ... it unseemly for me to be at such ... a gathering."

Akim Petrovitch said nothing, but listened with timid curiosity.

"But I hope you will understand, with what object I have come.... I
haven't really come simply to drink wine ... he-he!"

Akim Petrovitch tried to chuckle, following the example of his Excellency,
but again he could not get it out, and again he made absolutely no
consolatory answer.

"I am here ... in order, so to speak, to encourage ... to show, so to
speak, a moral aim," Ivan Ilyitch continued, feeling vexed at Akim
Petrovitch's stupidity, but he suddenly subsided into silence himself. He
saw that poor Akim Petrovitch had dropped his eyes as though he were in
fault. The general in some confusion made haste to take another sip from
his glass, and Akim Petrovitch clutched at the bottle as though it were his
only hope of salvation and filled the glass again.

"You haven't many resources," thought Ivan Ilyitch, looking sternly at poor
Akim Petrovitch. The latter, feeling that stern general-like eye upon him,
made up his mind to remain silent for good and not to raise his eyes. So
they sat beside each other for a couple of minutes--two sickly minutes for
Akim Petrovitch.

A couple of words about Akim Petrovitch. He was a man of the old school, as
meek as a hen, reared from infancy to obsequious servility, and at the same
time a good-natured and even honourable man. He was a Petersburg Russian;
that is, his father and his father's father were born, grew up and served
in Petersburg and had never once left Petersburg. That is quite a special
type of Russian. They have hardly any idea of Russia, though that does not
trouble them at all. Their whole interest is confined to Petersburg and
chiefly the place in which they serve. All their thoughts are concentrated
on preference for farthing points, on the shop, and their month's salary.
They don't know a single Russian custom, a single Russian song except
"Lutchinushka," and that only because it is played on the barrel organs.
However, there are two fundamental and invariable signs by which you can
at once distinguish a Petersburg Russian from a real Russian. The first
sign is the fact that Petersburg Russians, all without exception, speak of
the newspaper as the _Academic News_ and never call it the _Petersburg
News_. The second and equally trustworthy sign is that Petersburg Russians
never make use of the word "breakfast," but always call it "Frühstück" with
especial emphasis on the first syllable. By these radical and
distinguishing signs you can tell them apart; in short, this is a humble
type which has been formed during the last thirty-five years. Akim
Petrovitch, however, was by no means a fool. If the general had asked him a
question about anything in his own province he would have answered and kept
up a conversation; as it was, it was unseemly for a subordinate even to
answer such questions as these, though Akim Petrovitch was dying from
curiosity to know something more detailed about his Excellency's real
intentions.

And meanwhile Ivan Ilyitch sank more and more into meditation and a sort of
whirl of ideas; in his absorption he sipped his glass every half-minute.
Akim Petrovitch at once zealously filled it up. Both were silent. Ivan
Ilyitch began looking at the dances, and immediately something attracted
his attention. One circumstance even surprised him....

The dances were certainly lively. Here people danced in the simplicity of
their hearts to amuse themselves and even to romp wildly. Among the dancers
few were really skilful, but the unskilled stamped so vigorously that they
might have been taken for agile ones. The officer was among the foremost;
he particularly liked the figures in which he was left alone, to perform a
solo. Then he performed the most marvellous capers. For instance, standing
upright as a post, he would suddenly bend over to one side, so that one
expected him to fall over; but with the next step he would suddenly bend
over in the opposite direction at the same acute angle to the floor. He
kept the most serious face and danced in the full conviction that every
one was watching him. Another gentleman, who had had rather more than he
could carry before the quadrille, dropped asleep beside his partner so that
his partner had to dance alone. The young registration clerk, who had
danced with the lady in the blue scarf through all the figures and through
all the five quadrilles which they had danced that evening, played the same
prank the whole time: that is, he dropped a little behind his partner,
seized the end of her scarf, and as they crossed over succeeded in
imprinting some twenty kisses on the scarf. His partner sailed along in
front of him, as though she noticed nothing. The medical student really did
dance on his head, and excited frantic enthusiasm, stamping, and shrieks of
delight. In short, the absence of constraint was very marked. Ivan Ilyitch,
whom the wine was beginning to affect, began by smiling, but by degrees a
bitter doubt began to steal into his heart; of course he liked free and
easy manners and unconventionality. He desired, he had even inwardly prayed
for free and easy manners, when they had all held back, but now that
unconventionality had gone beyond all limits. One lady, for instance, the
one in the shabby dark blue velvet dress, bought fourth-hand, in the sixth
figure pinned her dress so as to turn it into--something like trousers.
This was the Kleopatra Semyonovna with whom one could venture to do
anything, as her partner, the medical student, had expressed it. The
medical student defied description: he was simply a Fokin. How was it? They
had held back and now they were so quickly emancipated! One might think it
nothing, but this transformation was somehow strange; it indicated
something. It was as though they had forgotten Ivan Ilyitch's existence. Of
course he was the first to laugh, and even ventured to applaud. Akim
Petrovitch chuckled respectfully in unison, though, indeed, with evident
pleasure and no suspicion that his Excellency was beginning to nourish in
his heart a new gnawing anxiety.

"You dance capitally, young man," Ivan Ilyitch was obliged to say to the
medical student as he walked past him.

The student turned sharply towards him, made a grimace, and bringing his
face close into unseemly proximity to the face of his Excellency, crowed
like a cock at the top of his voice. This was too much. Ivan Ilyitch got up
from the table. In spite of that, a roar of inexpressible laughter
followed, for the crow was an extraordinarily good imitation, and the whole
performance was utterly unexpected. Ivan Ilyitch was still standing in
bewilderment, when suddenly Pseldonimov himself made his appearance, and
with a bow, began begging him to come to supper. His mother followed him.

"Your Excellency," she said, bowing, "do us the honour, do not disdain our
humble fare."

"I ... I really don't know," Ivan Ilyitch was beginning. "I did not come
with that idea ... I ... meant to be going...."

He was, in fact, holding his hat in his hands. What is more, he had at that
very moment taken an inward vow at all costs to depart at once and on no
account whatever to consent to remain, and ... he remained. A minute later
he led the procession to the table. Pseldonimov and his mother walked in
front, clearing the way for him. They made him sit down in the seat of
honour, and again a bottle of champagne, opened but not begun, was set
beside his plate. By way of _hors d'oeuvres_ there were salt herrings and
vodka. He put out his hand, poured out a large glass of vodka and drank it
off. He had never drunk vodka before. He felt as though he were rolling
down a hill, were flying, flying, flying, that he must stop himself, catch
at something, but there was no possibility of it.

His position was certainly becoming more and more eccentric. What is more,
it seemed as though fate were mocking at him. God knows what had happened
to him in the course of an hour or so. When he went in he had, so to say,
opened his arms to embrace all humanity, all his subordinates; and here not
more than an hour had passed and in all his aching heart he felt and knew
that he hated Pseldonimov and was cursing him, his wife and his wedding.
What was more, he saw from his face, from his eyes alone, that Pseldonimov
himself hated him, that he was looking at him with eyes that almost said:
"If only you would take yourself off, curse you! Foisting yourself on us!"
All this he had read for some time in his eyes.

Of course as he sat down to table, Ivan Ilyitch would sooner have had his
hand cut off than have owned, not only aloud, but even to himself, that
this was really so. The moment had not fully arrived yet. There was still a
moral vacillation. But his heart, his heart ... it ached! It was clamouring
for freedom, for air, for rest. Ivan Ilyitch was really too good-natured.

He knew, of course, that he ought long before to have gone away, not merely
to have gone away but to have made his escape. That all this was not the
same, but had turned out utterly different from what he had dreamed of on
the pavement.

"Why did I come? Did I come here to eat and drink?" he asked himself as he
tasted the salt herring. He even had attacks of scepticism. There was at
moments a faint stir of irony in regard to his own fine action at the
bottom of his heart. He actually wondered at times why he had come in.

But how could he go away? To go away like this without having finished the
business properly was impossible. What would people say? They would say
that he was frequenting low company. Indeed it really would amount to that
if he did not end it properly. What would Stepan Nikiforovitch, Semyon
Ivanovitch say (for of course it would be all over the place by to-morrow)?
what would be said in the offices, at the Shembels', at the Shubins'? No,
he must take his departure in such a way that all should understand why he
had come, he must make clear his moral aim.... And meantime the dramatic
moment would not present itself. "They don't even respect me," he went on,
thinking. "What are they laughing at? They are as free and easy as though
they had no feeling.... But I have long suspected that all the younger
generation are without feeling! I must remain at all costs! They have just
been dancing, but now at table they will all be gathered together.... I
will talk about questions, about reforms, about the greatness of Russia....
I can still win their enthusiasm! Yes! Perhaps nothing is yet lost....
Perhaps it is always like this in reality. What should I begin upon with
them to attract them? What plan can I hit upon? I am lost, simply lost....
And what is it they want, what is it they require?... I see they are
laughing together there. Can it be at me, merciful heavens! But what is it
I want ... why is it I am here, why don't I go away, why do I go on
persisting?"... He thought this, and a sort of shame, a deep unbearable
shame, rent his heart more and more intensely.

       *       *       *       *       *

But everything went on in the same way, one thing after another.

Just two minutes after he had sat down to the table one terrible thought
overwhelmed him completely. He suddenly felt that he was horribly drunk,
that is, not as he was before, but hopelessly drunk. The cause of this was
the glass of vodka which he had drunk after the champagne, and which had
immediately produced an effect. He was conscious, he felt in every fibre of
his being that he was growing hopelessly feeble. Of course his assurance
was greatly increased, but consciousness had not deserted him, and it kept
crying out: "It is bad, very bad and, in fact, utterly unseemly!" Of course
his unstable drunken reflections could not rest long on one subject; there
began to be apparent and unmistakably so, even to himself, two opposite
sides. On one side there was swaggering assurance, a desire to conquer, a
disdain of obstacles and a desperate confidence that he would attain his
object. The other side showed itself in the aching of his heart, and a sort
of gnawing in his soul. "What would they say? How would it all end? What
would happen to-morrow, to-morrow, to-morrow?"...

He had felt vaguely before that he had enemies in the company. "No doubt
that was because I was drunk," he thought with agonising doubt. What was
his horror when he actually, by unmistakable signs, convinced himself now
that he really had enemies at the table, and that it was impossible to
doubt of it.

"And why--why?" he wondered.

At the table there were all the thirty guests, of whom several were quite
tipsy. Others were behaving with a careless and sinister independence,
shouting and talking at the top of their voices, bawling out the toasts
before the time, and pelting the ladies with pellets of bread. One
unprepossessing personage in a greasy coat had fallen off his chair as soon
as he sat down, and remained so till the end of supper. Another one made
desperate efforts to stand on the table, to propose a toast, and only the
officer, who seized him by the tails of his coat, moderated his premature
ardour. The supper was a pell-mell affair, although they had hired a cook
who had been in the service of a general; there was the galantine, there
was tongue and potatoes, there were rissoles with green peas, there was,
finally, a goose, and last of all blancmange. Among the drinks were beer,
vodka and sherry. The only bottle of champagne was standing beside the
general, which obliged him to pour it out for himself and also for Akim
Petrovitch, who did not venture at supper to officiate on his own
initiative. The other guests had to drink the toasts in Caucasian wine or
anything else they could get. The table was made up of several tables put
together, among them even a card-table. It was covered with many
tablecloths, amongst them one coloured Yaroslav cloth; the gentlemen sat
alternately with the ladies. Pseldonimov's mother would not sit down to the
table; she bustled about and supervised. But another sinister female
figure, who had not shown herself till then, appeared on the scene, wearing
a reddish silk dress, with a very high cap on her head and a bandage round
her face for toothache. It appeared that this was the bride's mother, who
had at last consented to emerge from a back room for supper. She had
refused to appear till then owing to her implacable hostility to
Pseldonimov's mother, but to that we will refer later. This lady looked
spitefully, even sarcastically, at the general, and evidently did not wish
to be presented to him. To Ivan Ilyitch this figure appeared suspicious in
the extreme. But apart from her, several other persons were suspicious and
inspired involuntary apprehension and uneasiness. It even seemed that they
were in some sort of plot together against Ivan Ilyitch. At any rate it
seemed so to him, and throughout the whole supper he became more and more
convinced of it. A gentleman with a beard, some sort of free artist, was
particularly sinister; he even looked at Ivan Ilyitch several times, and
then turning to his neighbour, whispered something. Another person present
was unmistakably drunk, but yet, from certain signs, was to be regarded
with suspicion. The medical student, too, gave rise to unpleasant
expectations. Even the officer himself was not quite to be depended on. But
the young man on the comic paper was blazing with hatred, he lolled in his
chair, he looked so haughty and conceited, he snorted so aggressively! And
though the rest of the guests took absolutely no notice of the young
journalist, who had contributed only four wretched poems to the
_Firebrand_, and had consequently become a Liberal and evidently, indeed,
disliked him, yet when a pellet of bread aimed in his direction fell near
Ivan Ilyitch, he was ready to stake his head that it had been thrown by no
other than the young man in question.

All this, of course, had a pitiable effect on him.

Another observation was particularly unpleasant. Ivan Ilyitch became aware
that he was beginning to articulate indistinctly and with difficulty, that
he was longing to say a great deal, but that his tongue refused to obey
him. And then he suddenly seemed to forget himself, and worst of all he
would suddenly burst into a loud guffaw of laughter, _à propos_ of nothing.
This inclination quickly passed off after a glass of champagne which Ivan
Ilyitch had not meant to drink, though he had poured it out and suddenly
drunk it quite by accident. After that glass he felt at once almost
inclined to cry. He felt that he was sinking into a most peculiar state of
sentimentality; he began to be again filled with love, he loved every one,
even Pseldonimov, even the young man on the comic paper. He suddenly longed
to embrace all of them, to forget everything and to be reconciled. What is
more, to tell them everything openly, all, all; that is, to tell them what
a good, nice man he was, with what wonderful talents. What services he
would do for his country, how good he was at entertaining the fair sex, and
above all, how progressive he was, how humanely ready he was to be
indulgent to all, to the very lowest; and finally in conclusion to tell
them frankly all the motives that had impelled him to turn up at
Pseldonimov's uninvited, to drink two bottles of champagne and to make him
happy with his presence.

"The truth, the holy truth and candour before all things! I will capture
them by candour. They will believe me, I see it clearly; they actually look
at me with hostility, but when I tell them all I shall conquer them
completely. They will fill their glasses and drink my health with shouts.
The officer will break his glass on his spur. Perhaps they will even shout
hurrah! Even if they want to toss me after the Hussar fashion I will not
oppose them, and indeed it would be very jolly! I will kiss the bride on
her forehead; she is charming. Akim Petrovitch is a very nice man, too.
Pseldonimov will improve, of course, later on. He will acquire, so to
speak, a society polish.... And although, of course, the younger generation
has not that delicacy of feeling, yet ... yet I will talk to them about the
contemporary significance of Russia among the European States. I will refer
to the peasant question, too; yes, and ... and they will all like me and I
shall leave with glory!..."

These dreams were, of course, extremely agreeable, but what was unpleasant
was that in the midst of these roseate anticipations, Ivan Ilyitch suddenly
discovered in himself another unexpected propensity, that was to spit.
Anyway saliva began running from his mouth apart from any will of his own.
He observed this on Akim Petrovitch, whose cheek he spluttered upon and who
sat not daring to wipe it off from respectfulness. Ivan Ilyitch took his
dinner napkin and wiped it himself, but this immediately struck him himself
as so incongruous, so opposed to all common sense, that he sank into
silence and began wondering. Though Akim Petrovitch emptied his glass, yet
he sat as though he were scalded. Ivan Ilyitch reflected now that he had
for almost a quarter of an hour been talking to him about some most
interesting subject, but that Akim Petrovitch had not only seemed
embarrassed as he listened, but positively frightened. Pseldonimov, who was
sitting one chair away from him, also craned his neck towards him, and
bending his head sideways, listened to him with the most unpleasant air. He
actually seemed to be keeping a watch on him. Turning his eyes upon the
rest of the company, he saw that many were looking straight at him and
laughing. But what was strangest of all was, that he was not in the least
embarrassed by it; on the contrary, he sipped his glass again and suddenly
began speaking so that all could hear:

"I was saying just now," he began as loudly as possible, "I was saying
just now, ladies and gentlemen, to Akim Petrovitch, that Russia ... yes,
Russia ... in short, you understand, that I mean to s-s-say ... Russia is
living, it is my profound conviction, through a period of hu-hu-manity...."

"Hu-hu-manity ..." was heard at the other end of the table.

"Hu-hu...."

"Tu-tu!"

Ivan Ilyitch stopped. Pseldonimov got up from his chair and began trying to
see who had shouted. Akim Petrovitch stealthily shook his head, as though
admonishing the guests. Ivan Ilyitch saw this distinctly, but in his
confusion said nothing.

"Humanity!" he continued obstinately; "and this evening ... and only this
evening I said to Stepan Niki-ki-foro-vitch ... yes ... that ... that the
regeneration, so to speak, of things...."

"Your Excellency!" was heard a loud exclamation at the other end of the
table.

"What is your pleasure?" answered Ivan Ilyitch, pulled up short and trying
to distinguish who had called to him.

"Nothing at all, your Excellency. I was carried away, continue!
Con-ti-nue!" the voice was heard again.

Ivan Ilyitch felt upset.

"The regeneration, so to speak, of those same things."

"Your Excellency!" the voice shouted again.

"What do you want?"

"How do you do!"

This time Ivan Ilyitch could not restrain himself. He broke off his speech
and turned to the assailant who had disturbed the general harmony. He was a
very young lad, still at school, who had taken more than a drop too much,
and was an object of great suspicion to the general. He had been shouting
for a long time past, and had even broken a glass and two plates,
maintaining that this was the proper thing to do at a wedding. At the
moment when Ivan Ilyitch turned towards him, the officer was beginning to
pitch into the noisy youngster.

"What are you about? Why are you yelling? We shall turn you out, that's
what we shall do."

"I don't mean you, your Excellency, I don't mean you. Continue!" cried the
hilarious schoolboy, lolling back in his chair. "Continue, I am listening,
and am very, ve-ry, ve-ry much pleased with you! Praisewor-thy,
praisewor-thy!"

"The wretched boy is drunk," said Pseldonimov in a whisper.

"I see that he is drunk, but...."

"I was just telling a very amusing anecdote, your Excellency!" began the
officer, "about a lieutenant in our company who was talking just like that
to his superior officers; so this young man is imitating him now. To every
word of his superior officers he said 'praiseworthy, praiseworthy!' He was
turned out of the army ten years ago on account of it."

"Wha-at lieutenant was that?"

"In our company, your Excellency, he went out of his mind over the word
praiseworthy. At first they tried gentle methods, then they put him under
arrest.... His commanding officer admonished him in the most fatherly way,
and he answered, 'praiseworthy, praiseworthy!' And strange to say, the
officer was a fine-looking man, over six feet. They meant to court-martial
him, but then they perceived that he was mad."

"So ... a schoolboy. A schoolboy's prank need not be taken seriously. For
my part I am ready to overlook it...."

"They held a medical inquiry, your Excellency."

"Upon my word, but he was alive, wasn't he?"

"What! Did they dissect him?"

A loud and almost universal roar of laughter resounded among the guests,
who had till then behaved with decorum. Ivan Ilyitch was furious.

"Ladies and gentlemen!" he shouted, at first scarcely stammering, "I am
fully capable of apprehending that a man is not dissected alive. I imagined
that in his derangement he had ceased to be alive ... that is, that he had
died ... that is, I mean to say ... that you don't like me ... and yet I
like you all ... Yes, I like Por ... Porfiry ... I am lowering myself by
speaking like this...."

At that moment Ivan Ilyitch spluttered so that a great dab of saliva flew
on to the tablecloth in a most conspicuous place. Pseldonimov flew to wipe
it off with a table-napkin. This last disaster crushed him completely.

"My friends, this is too much," he cried in despair.

"The man is drunk, your Excellency," Pseldonimov prompted him again.

"Porfiry, I see that you ... all ... yes! I say that I hope ... yes, I call
upon you all to tell me in what way have I lowered myself?"

Ivan Ilyitch was almost crying.

"Your Excellency, good heavens!"

"Porfiry, I appeal to you.... Tell me, when I came ... yes ... yes, to your
wedding, I had an object. I was aiming at moral elevation.... I wanted it
to be felt.... I appeal to all: am I greatly lowered in your eyes or not?"

A deathlike silence. That was just it, a deathlike silence, and to such a
downright question. "They might at least shout at this minute!" flashed
through his Excellency's head. But the guests only looked at one another.
Akim Petrovitch sat more dead than alive, while Pseldonimov, numb with
terror, was repeating to himself the awful question which had occurred to
him more than once already.

"What shall I have to pay for all this to-morrow?"

At this point the young man on the comic paper, who was very drunk but who
had hitherto sat in morose silence, addressed Ivan Ilyitch directly, and
with flashing eyes began answering in the name of the whole company.

"Yes," he said in a loud voice, "yes, you have lowered yourself. Yes, you
are a reactionary ... re-ac-tion-ary!"

"Young man, you are forgetting yourself! To whom are you speaking, so to
express it?" Ivan Ilyitch cried furiously, jumping up from his seat again.

"To you; and secondly, I am not a young man.... You've come to give
yourself airs and try to win popularity."

"Pseldonimov, what does this mean?" cried Ivan Ilyitch.

But Pseldonimov was reduced to such horror that he stood still like a post
and was utterly at a loss what to do. The guests, too, sat mute in their
seats. All but the artist and the schoolboy, who applauded and shouted,
"Bravo, bravo!"

The young man on the comic paper went on shouting with unrestrained
violence:

"Yes, you came to show off your humanity! You've hindered the enjoyment of
every one. You've been drinking champagne without thinking that it is
beyond the means of a clerk at ten roubles a month. And I suspect that you
are one of those high officials who are a little too fond of the young
wives of their clerks! What is more, I am convinced that you support State
monopolies.... Yes, yes, yes!"

"Pseldonimov, Pseldonimov," shouted Ivan Ilyitch, holding out his hands to
him. He felt that every word uttered by the comic young man was a fresh
dagger at his heart.

"Directly, your Excellency; please do not disturb yourself!" Pseldonimov
cried energetically, rushing up to the comic young man, seizing him by the
collar and dragging him away from the table. Such physical strength could
indeed not have been expected from the weakly looking Pseldonimov. But the
comic young man was very drunk, while Pseldonimov was perfectly sober. Then
he gave him two or three cuffs in the back, and thrust him out of the
door.

"You are all scoundrels!" roared the young man of the comic paper. "I will
caricature you all to-morrow in the _Firebrand_."

They all leapt up from their seats.

"Your Excellency, your Excellency!" cried Pseldonimov, his mother and
several others, crowding round the general; "your Excellency, do not be
disturbed!"

"No, no," cried the general, "I am annihilated.... I came... I meant to
bless you, so to speak. And this is how I am paid, for everything,
everything!..."

He sank on to a chair as though unconscious, laid both his arms on the
table, and bowed his head over them, straight into a plate of blancmange.
There is no need to describe the general horror. A minute later he got up,
evidently meaning to go out, gave a lurch, stumbled against the leg of a
chair, fell full length on the floor and snored....

This is what is apt to happen to men who don't drink when they accidentally
take a glass too much. They preserve their consciousness to the last point,
to the last minute, and then fall to the ground as though struck down. Ivan
Ilyitch lay on the floor absolutely unconscious. Pseldonimov clutched at
his hair and sat as though petrified in that position. The guests made
haste to depart, commenting each in his own way on the incident. It was
about three o'clock in the morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

The worst of it was that Pseldonimov's circumstances were far worse than
could have been imagined, in spite of the unattractiveness of his present
surroundings. And while Ivan Ilyitch is lying on the floor and Pseldonimov
is standing over him tearing his hair in despair, we will break off the
thread of our story and say a few explanatory words about Porfiry
Petrovitch Pseldonimov.

Not more than a month before his wedding he was in a state of hopeless
destitution. He came from a province where his father had served in some
department and where he had died while awaiting his trial on some charge.
When five months before his wedding, Pseldonimov, who had been in hopeless
misery in Petersburg for a whole year before, got his berth at ten roubles
a month, he revived both physically and mentally, but he was soon crushed
by circumstances again. There were only two Pseldonimovs left in the world,
himself and his mother, who had left the province after her husband's
death. The mother and son barely existed in the freezing cold, and
sustained life on the most dubious substances. There were days when
Pseldonimov himself went with a jug to the Fontanka for water to drink.
When he got his place he succeeded in settling with his mother in a
"corner." She took in washing, while for four months he scraped together
every farthing to get himself boots and an overcoat. And what troubles he
had to endure at his office; his superiors approached him with the
question: "How long was it since he had had a bath?" There was a rumour
about him that under the collar of his uniform there were nests of bugs.
But Pseldonimov was a man of strong character. On the surface he was mild
and meek; he had the merest smattering of education, he was practically
never heard to talk of anything. I do not know for certain whether he
thought, made plans and theories, had dreams. But on the other hand there
was being formed within him an instinctive, furtive, unconscious
determination to fight his way out of his wretched circumstances. He had
the persistence of an ant. Destroy an ants' nest, and they will begin at
once re-erecting it; destroy it again, and they will begin again without
wearying. He was a constructive house-building animal. One could see from
his brow that he would make his way, would build his nest, and perhaps even
save for a rainy day. His mother was the only creature in the world who
loved him, and she loved him beyond everything. She was a woman of
resolute character, hard-working and indefatigable, and at the same time
good-natured. So perhaps they might have lived in their corner for five or
six years till their circumstances changed, if they had not come across the
retired titular councillor Mlekopitaev, who had been a clerk in the
treasury and had served at one time in the provinces, but had latterly
settled in Petersburg and had established himself there with his family. He
knew Pseldonimov, and had at one time been under some obligation to his
father. He had a little money, not a large sum, of course, but there it
was; how much it was no one knew, not his wife, nor his elder daughter, nor
his relations. He had two daughters, and as he was an awful bully, a
drunkard, a domestic tyrant, and in addition to that an invalid, he took it
into his head one day to marry one of his daughters to Pseldonimov: "I knew
his father," he would say, "he was a good fellow and his son will be a good
fellow." Mlekopitaev did exactly as he liked, his word was law. He was a
very queer bully. For the most part he spent his time sitting in an
arm-chair, having lost the use of his legs from some disease which did not,
however, prevent him from drinking vodka. For days together he would be
drinking and swearing. He was an ill-natured man. He always wanted to have
some one whom he could be continually tormenting. And for that purpose he
kept several distant relations: his sister, a sickly and peevish woman; two
of his wife's sisters, also ill-natured and very free with their tongues,
and his old aunt, who had through some accident a broken rib; he kept
another dependent also, a Russianised German, for the sake of her talent
for entertaining him with stories from the _Arabian Nights_. His sole
gratification consisted in jeering at all these unfortunate women and
abusing them every minute with all his energies; though the latter, not
excepting his wife, who had been born with toothache, dared not utter a
word in his presence. He set them at loggerheads at one another, inventing
and fostering spiteful backbiting and dissensions among them, and then
laughed and rejoiced seeing how they were ready to tear one another to
pieces. He was very much delighted when his elder daughter, who had lived
in great poverty for ten years with her husband, an officer of some sort,
and was at last left a widow, came to live with him with three little
sickly children. He could not endure her children, but as her arrival had
increased the material upon which he could work his daily experiments, the
old man was very much pleased. All these ill-natured women and sickly
children, together with their tormentor, were crowded together in a wooden
house on Petersburg Side, and did not get enough to eat because the old man
was stingy and gave out to them money a farthing at a time, though he did
not grudge himself vodka; they did not get enough sleep because the old man
suffered from sleeplessness and insisted on being amused. In short, they
all were in misery and cursed their fate. It was at that time that
Mlekopitaev's eye fell upon Pseldonimov. He was struck by his long nose and
submissive air. His weakly and unprepossessing younger daughter had just
reached the age of seventeen. Though she had at one time attended a German
school, she had acquired scarcely anything but the alphabet. Then she grew
up rickety and anæmic in fear of her crippled drunken father's crutch, in a
Bedlam of domestic backbiting, eavesdropping and scolding. She had never
had any friends or any brains. She had for a long time been eager to be
married. In company she sat mute, but at home with her mother and the women
of the household she was spiteful and cantankerous. She was particularly
fond of pinching and smacking her sister's children, telling tales of their
pilfering bread and sugar, and this led to endless and implacable strife
with her elder sister. Her old father himself offered her to Pseldonimov.
Miserable as the latter's position was, he yet asked for a little time to
consider. His mother and he hesitated for a long time. But with the young
lady there was to come as dowry a house, and though it was a nasty little
wooden house of one storey, yet it was property of a kind. Moreover, they
would give with her four hundred roubles, and how long it would take him to
save it up himself! "What am I taking the man into my house for?" shouted
the drunken bully. "In the first place because you are all females, and I
am sick of female society. I want Pseldonimov, too, to dance to my piping.
For I am his benefactor. And in the second place I am doing it because you
are all cross and don't want it, so I'll do it to spite you. What I have
said, I have said! And you beat her, Porfiry, when she is your wife; she
has been possessed of seven devils ever since she was born. You beat them
out of her, and I'll get the stick ready."

Pseldonimov made no answer, but he was already decided. Before the wedding
his mother and he were taken into the house, washed, clothed, provided with
boots and money for the wedding. The old man took them under his protection
possibly just because the whole family was prejudiced against them. He
positively liked Pseldonimov's mother, so that he actually restrained
himself and did not jeer at her. On the other hand, he made Pseldonimov
dance the Cossack dance a week before the wedding.

"Well, that's enough. I only wanted to see whether you remembered your
position before me or not," he said at the end of the dance. He allowed
just enough money for the wedding, with nothing to spare, and invited all
his relations and acquaintances. On Pseldonimov's side there was no one but
the young man who wrote for the _Firebrand_, and Akim Petrovitch, the guest
of honour. Pseldonimov was perfectly aware that his bride cherished an
aversion for him, and that she was set upon marrying the officer instead of
him. But he put up with everything, he had made a compact with his mother
to do so. The old father had been drunk and abusive and foul-tongued the
whole of the wedding day and during the party in the evening. The whole
family took refuge in the back rooms and were crowded there to suffocation.
The front rooms were devoted to the dance and the supper. At last when the
old man fell asleep dead drunk at eleven o'clock, the bride's mother, who
had been particularly displeased with Pseldonimov's mother that day, made
up her mind to lay aside her wrath, become gracious and join the company.
Ivan Ilyitch's arrival had turned everything upside down. Madame
Mlekopitaev was overcome with embarrassment, and began grumbling that she
had not been told that the general had been invited. She was assured that
he had come uninvited, but was so stupid as to refuse to believe it.
Champagne had to be got. Pseldonimov's mother had only one rouble, while
Pseldonimov himself had not one farthing. He had to grovel before his
ill-natured mother-in-law, to beg for the money for one bottle and then for
another. They pleaded for the sake of his future position in the service,
for his career, they tried to persuade her. She did at last give from her
own purse, but she forced Pseldonimov to swallow such a cupful of gall and
bitterness that more than once he ran into the room where the nuptial couch
had been prepared, and madly clutching at his hair and trembling all over
with impotent rage, he buried his head in the bed destined for the joys of
paradise. No, indeed, Ivan Ilyitch had no notion of the price paid for the
two bottles of Jackson he had drunk that evening. What was the horror, the
misery and even the despair of Pseldonimov when Ivan Ilyitch's visit ended
in this unexpected way. He had a prospect again of no end of misery, and
perhaps a night of tears and outcries from his peevish bride, and
upbraidings from her unreasonable relations. Even apart from this his head
ached already, and there was dizziness and mist before his eyes. And here
Ivan Ilyitch needed looking after, at three o'clock at night he had to
hunt for a doctor or a carriage to take him home, and a carriage it must
be, for it would be impossible to let an ordinary cabby take him home in
that condition. And where could he get the money even for a carriage?
Madame Mlekopitaev, furious that the general had not addressed two words to
her, and had not even looked at her at supper, declared that she had not a
farthing. Possibly she really had not a farthing. Where could he get it?
What was he to do? Yes, indeed, he had good cause to tear his hair.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile Ivan Ilyitch was moved to a little leather sofa that stood in the
dining-room. While they were clearing the tables and putting them away,
Pseldonimov was rushing all over the place to borrow money, he even tried
to get it from the servants, but it appeared that nobody had any. He even
ventured to trouble Akim Petrovitch who had stayed after the other guests.
But good-natured as he was, the latter was reduced to such bewilderment and
even alarm at the mention of money that he uttered the most unexpected and
foolish phrases:

"Another time, with pleasure," he muttered, "but now ... you really must
excuse me...."

And taking his cap, he ran as fast as he could out of the house. Only the
good-natured youth who had talked about the dream book was any use at all;
and even that came to nothing. He, too, stayed after the others, showing
genuine sympathy with Pseldonimov's misfortunes. At last Pseldonimov,
together with his mother and the young man, decided in consultation not to
send for a doctor, but rather to fetch a carriage and take the invalid
home, and meantime to try certain domestic remedies till the carriage
arrived, such as moistening his temples and his head with cold water,
putting ice on his head, and so on. Pseldonimov's mother undertook this
task. The friendly youth flew off in search of a carriage. As there were
not even ordinary cabs to be found on the Petersburg Side at that hour, he
went off to some livery stables at a distance to wake up the coachmen. They
began bargaining, and declared that five roubles would be little to ask for
a carriage at that time of night. They agreed to come, however, for three.
When at last, just before five o'clock, the young man arrived at
Pseldonimov's with the carriage, they had changed their minds. It appeared
that Ivan Ilyitch, who was still unconscious, had become so seriously
unwell, was moaning and tossing so terribly, that to move him and take him
home in such a condition was impossible and actually unsafe. "What will it
lead to next?" said Pseldonimov, utterly disheartened. What was to be done?
A new problem arose: if the invalid remained in the house, where should he
be moved and where could they put him? There were only two bedsteads in the
house: one large double bed in which old Mlekopitaev and his wife slept,
and another double bed of imitation walnut which had just been purchased
and was destined for the newly married couple. All the other inhabitants of
the house slept on the floor side by side on feather beds, for the most
part in bad condition and stuffy, anything but presentable in fact, and
even of these the supply was insufficient; there was not one to spare.
Where could the invalid be put? A feather bed might perhaps have been
found--it might in the last resort have been pulled from under some one,
but where and on what could a bed have been made up? It seemed that the bed
must be made up in the drawing-room, for that room was the furthest from
the bosom of the family and had a door into the passage. But on what could
the bed be made? Surely not upon chairs. We all know that beds can only be
made up on chairs for schoolboys when they come home for the week end, and
it would be terribly lacking in respect to make up a bed in that way for a
personage like Ivan Ilyitch. What would be said next morning when he found
himself lying on chairs? Pseldonimov would not hear of that. The only
alternative was to put him on the bridal couch. This bridal couch, as we
have mentioned already, was in a little room that opened out of the
dining-room, on the bedstead was a double mattress actually newly bought
first-hand, clean sheets, four pillows in pink calico covered with frilled
muslin cases. The quilt was of pink satin, and it was quilted in patterns.
Muslin curtains hung down from a golden ring overhead, in fact it was all
just as it should be, and the guests who had all visited the bridal chamber
had admired the decoration of it; though the bride could not endure
Pseldonimov, she had several times in the course of the evening run in to
have a look at it on the sly. What was her indignation, her wrath, when she
learned that they meant to move an invalid, suffering from something not
unlike a mild attack of cholera, to her bridal couch! The bride's mother
took her part, broke into abuse and vowed she would complain to her husband
next day, but Pseldonimov asserted himself and insisted: Ivan Ilyitch was
moved into the bridal chamber, and a bed was made up on chairs for the
young people. The bride whimpered, would have liked to pinch him, but dared
not disobey; her papa had a crutch with which she was very familiar, and
she knew that her papa would call her to account next day. To console her
they carried the pink satin quilt and the pillows in muslin cases into the
drawing-room. At that moment the youth arrived with the carriage, and was
horribly alarmed that the carriage was not wanted. He was left to pay for
it himself, and he never had as much as a ten-kopeck piece. Pseldonimov
explained that he was utterly bankrupt. They tried to parley with the
driver. But he began to be noisy and even to batter on the shutters. How it
ended I don't know exactly. I believe the youth was carried off to Peski by
way of a hostage to Fourth Rozhdensky Street, where he hoped to rouse a
student who was spending the night at a friend's, and to try whether he
had any money. It was going on for six o'clock in the morning when the
young people were left alone and shut up in the drawing-room. Pseldonimov's
mother spent the whole night by the bedside of the sufferer. She installed
herself on a rug on the floor and covered herself with an old coat, but
could not sleep because she had to get up every minute: Ivan Ilyitch had a
terrible attack of colic. Madame Pseldonimov, a woman of courage and
greatness of soul, undressed him with her own hands, took off all his
things, looked after him as if he were her own son, and spent the whole
night carrying basins, etc., from the bedroom across the passage and
bringing them back again empty. And yet the misfortunes of that night were
not yet over.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not more than ten minutes after the young people had been shut up alone in
the drawing-room, a piercing shriek was suddenly heard, not a cry of joy,
but a shriek of the most sinister kind. The screams were followed by a
noise, a crash, as though of the falling of chairs, and instantly there
burst into the still dark room a perfect crowd of exclaiming and frightened
women, attired in every kind of _déshabillé_. These women were the bride's
mother, her elder sister, abandoning for the moment the sick children, and
her three aunts, even the one with a broken rib dragged herself in. Even
the cook was there, and the German lady who told stories, whose own feather
bed, the best in the house, and her only property, had been forcibly
dragged from under her for the young couple, trailed in together with the
others. All these respectable and sharp-eyed ladies had, a quarter of an
hour before, made their way on tiptoe from the kitchen across the passage,
and were listening in the ante-room, devoured by unaccountable curiosity.
Meanwhile some one lighted a candle, and a surprising spectacle met the
eyes of all. The chairs supporting the broad feather bed only at the sides
had parted under the weight, and the feather bed had fallen between them on
the floor. The bride was sobbing with anger, this time she was mortally
offended. Pseldonimov, morally shattered, stood like a criminal caught in a
crime. He did not even attempt to defend himself. Shrieks and exclamations
sounded on all sides. Pseldonimov's mother ran up at the noise, but the
bride's mamma on this occasion got the upper hand. She began by showering
strange and for the most part quite undeserved reproaches, such as: "A nice
husband you are, after this. What are you good for after such a disgrace?"
and so on; and at last carried her daughter away from her husband,
undertaking to bear the full responsibility for doing so with her ferocious
husband, who would demand an explanation. All the others followed her out
exclaiming and shaking their heads. No one remained with Pseldonimov except
his mother, who tried to comfort him. But he sent her away at once.

He was beyond consolation. He made his way to the sofa and sat down in the
most gloomy confusion of mind just as he was, barefooted and in nothing but
his night attire. His thoughts whirled in a tangled criss-cross in his
mind. At times he mechanically looked about the room where only a little
while ago the dancers had been whirling madly, and in which the cigarette
smoke still lingered. Cigarette ends and sweet-meat papers still littered
the slopped and dirty floor. The wreck of the nuptial couch and the
overturned chairs bore witness to the transitoriness of the fondest and
surest earthly hopes and dreams. He sat like this almost an hour. The most
oppressive thoughts kept coming into his mind, such as the doubt: What was
in store for him in the office now? He recognised with painful clearness
that he would have, at all costs, to exchange into another department; that
he could not possibly remain where he was after all that had happened that
evening. He thought, too, of Mlekopitaev, who would probably make him
dance the Cossack dance next day to test his meekness. He reflected, too,
that though Mlekopitaev had given fifty roubles for the wedding
festivities, every farthing of which had been spent, he had not thought of
giving him the four hundred roubles yet, no mention had been made of it, in
fact. And, indeed, even the house had not been formally made over to him.
He thought, too, of his wife who had left him at the most critical moment
of his life, of the tall officer who had dropped on one knee before her. He
had noticed that already; he thought of the seven devils which according to
the testimony of her own father were in possession of his wife, and of the
crutch in readiness to drive them out.... Of course he felt equal to
bearing a great deal, but destiny had let loose such surprises upon him
that he might well have doubts of his fortitude. So Pseldonimov mused
dolefully. Meanwhile the candle end was going out, its fading light,
falling straight upon Pseldonimov's profile, threw a colossal shadow of it
on the wall, with a drawn-out neck, a hooked nose, and with two tufts of
hair sticking out on his forehead and the back of his head. At last, when
the air was growing cool with the chill of early morning, he got up, frozen
and spiritually numb, crawled to the feather bed that was lying between the
chairs, and without rearranging anything, without putting out the candle
end, without even laying the pillow under his head, fell into a leaden,
deathlike sleep, such as the sleep of men condemned to flogging on the
morrow must be.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the other hand, what could be compared with the agonising night spent by
Ivan Ilyitch Pralinsky on the bridal couch of the unlucky Pseldonimov! For
some time, headache, vomiting and other most unpleasant symptoms did not
leave him for one second. He was in the torments of hell. The faint
glimpses of consciousness that visited his brain, lighted up such an abyss
of horrors, such gloomy and revolting pictures, that it would have been
better for him not to have returned to consciousness. Everything was still
in a turmoil in his mind, however. He recognised Pseldonimov's mother, for
instance, heard her gentle admonitions, such as: "Be patient, my dear; be
patient, good sir, it won't be so bad presently." He recognised her, but
could give no logical explanation of her presence beside him. Revolting
phantoms haunted him, most frequently of all he was haunted by Semyon
Ivanitch; but looking more intently, he saw that it was not Semyon Ivanitch
but Pseldonimov's nose. He had visions, too, of the free-and-easy artist,
and the officer and the old lady with her face tied up. What interested him
most of all was the gilt ring which hung over his head, through which the
curtains hung. He could distinguish it distinctly in the dim light of the
candle end which lighted up the room, and he kept wondering inwardly: What
was the object of that ring, why was it there, what did it mean? He
questioned the old lady several times about it, but apparently did not say
what he meant; and she evidently did not understand it, however much he
struggled to explain. At last by morning the symptoms had ceased and he
fell into a sleep, a sound sleep without dreams. He slept about an hour,
and when he woke he was almost completely conscious, with an insufferable
headache, and a disgusting taste in his mouth and on his tongue, which
seemed turned into a piece of cloth. He sat up in the bed, looked about
him, and pondered. The pale light of morning peeping through the cracks of
the shutters in a narrow streak, quivered on the wall. It was about seven
o'clock in the morning. But when Ivan Ilyitch suddenly grasped the position
and recalled all that had happened to him since the evening; when he
remembered all his adventures at supper, the failure of his magnanimous
action, his speech at table; when he realised all at once with horrifying
clearness all that might come of this now, all that people would say and
think of him; when he looked round and saw to what a mournful and hideous
condition he had reduced the peaceful bridal couch of his clerk--oh, then
such deadly shame, such agony overwhelmed him, that he uttered a shriek,
hid his face in his hands and fell back on the pillow in despair. A minute
later he jumped out of bed, saw his clothes carefully folded and brushed on
a chair beside him, and seizing them, and as quickly as he could, in
desperate haste began putting them on, looking round and seeming terribly
frightened at something. On another chair close by lay his greatcoat and
fur cap, and his yellow gloves were in his cap. He meant to steal away
secretly. But suddenly the door opened and the elder Madame Pseldonimov
walked in with an earthenware jug and basin. A towel was hanging over her
shoulder. She set down the jug, and without further conversation told him
that he must wash.

"Come, my good sir, wash; you can't go without washing...."

And at that instant Ivan Ilyitch recognised that if there was one being in
the whole world whom he need not fear, and before whom he need not feel
ashamed, it was that old lady. He washed. And long afterwards, at painful
moments of his life, he recalled among other pangs of remorse all the
circumstances of that waking, and that earthenware basin, and the china jug
filled with cold water in which there were still floating icicles, and the
oval cake of soap at fifteen kopecks, in pink paper with letters embossed
on it, evidently bought for the bridal pair though it fell to Ivan Ilyitch
to use it, and the old lady with the linen towel over her left shoulder.
The cold water refreshed him, he dried his face, and without even thanking
his sister of mercy, he snatched up his hat, flung over his shoulders the
coat handed to him by Pseldonimov, and crossing the passage and the
kitchen where the cat was already mewing, and the cook sitting up in her
bed staring after him with greedy curiosity, ran out into the yard, into
the street, and threw himself into the first sledge he came across. It was
a frosty morning. A chilly yellow fog still hid the house and everything.
Ivan Ilyitch turned up his collar. He thought that every one was looking at
him, that they were all recognising him, all....

       *       *       *       *       *

For eight days he did not leave the house or show himself at the office. He
was ill, wretchedly ill, but more morally than physically. He lived through
a perfect hell in those days, and they must have been reckoned to his
account in the other world. There were moments when he thought of becoming
a monk and entering a monastery. There really were. His imagination,
indeed, took special excursions during that period. He pictured subdued
subterranean singing, an open coffin, living in a solitary cell, forests
and caves; but when he came to himself he recognised almost at once that
all this was dreadful nonsense and exaggeration, and was ashamed of this
nonsense. Then began attacks of moral agony on the theme of his _existence
manquée_. Then shame flamed up again in his soul, took complete possession
of him at once, consumed him like fire and re-opened his wounds. He
shuddered as pictures of all sorts rose before his mind. What would people
say about him, what would they think when he walked into his office? What a
whisper would dog his steps for a whole year, ten years, his whole life!
His story would go down to posterity. He sometimes fell into such dejection
that he was ready to go straight off to Semyon Ivanovitch and ask for his
forgiveness and friendship. He did not even justify himself, there was no
limit to his blame of himself. He could find no extenuating circumstances,
and was ashamed of trying to.

He had thoughts, too, of resigning his post at once and devoting himself to
human happiness as a simple citizen, in solitude. In any case he would have
completely to change his whole circle of acquaintances, and so thoroughly
as to eradicate all memory of himself. Then the thought occurred to him
that this, too, was nonsense, and that if he adopted greater severity with
his subordinates it might all be set right. Then he began to feel hope and
courage again. At last, at the expiration of eight days of hesitation and
agonies, he felt that he could not endure to be in uncertainty any longer,
and _un beau matin_ he made up his mind to go to the office.

He had pictured a thousand times over his return to the office as he sat at
home in misery. With horror and conviction he told himself that he would
certainly hear behind him an ambiguous whisper, would see ambiguous faces,
would intercept ominous smiles. What was his surprise when nothing of the
sort happened. He was greeted with respect; he was met with bows; every one
was grave; every one was busy. His heart was filled with joy as he made his
way to his own room.

He set to work at once with the utmost gravity, he listened to some reports
and explanations, settled doubtful points. He felt as though he had never
explained knotty points and given his decisions so intelligently, so
judiciously as that morning. He saw that they were satisfied with him, that
they respected him, that he was treated with respect. The most thin-skinned
sensitiveness could not have discovered anything.

At last Akim Petrovitch made his appearance with some document. The sight
of him sent a stab to Ivan Ilyitch's heart, but only for an instant. He
went into the business with Akim Petrovitch, talked with dignity, explained
things, and showed him what was to be done. The only thing he noticed was
that he avoided looking at Akim Petrovitch for any length of time, or
rather Akim Petrovitch seemed afraid of catching his eye, but at last Akim
Petrovitch had finished and began to collect his papers.

"And there is one other matter," he began as dryly as he could, "the clerk
Pseldonimov's petition to be transferred to another department. His
Excellency Semyon Ivanovitch Shipulenko has promised him a post. He begs
your gracious assent, your Excellency."

"Oh, so he is being transferred," said Ivan Ilyitch, and he felt as though
a heavy weight had rolled off his heart. He glanced at Akim Petrovitch, and
at that instant their eyes met. "Certainly, I for my part ... I will use,"
answered Ivan Ilyitch; "I am ready."

Akim Petrovitch evidently wanted to slip away as quickly as he could. But
in a rush of generous feeling Ivan Ilyitch determined to speak out.
Apparently some inspiration had come to him again.

"Tell him," he began, bending a candid glance full of profound meaning upon
Akim Petrovitch, "tell Pseldonimov that I feel no ill-will, no, I do
not!... That on the contrary I am ready to forget all that is past, to
forget it all...."

But all at once Ivan Ilyitch broke off, looking with wonder at the strange
behaviour of Akim Petrovitch, who suddenly seemed transformed from a
sensible person into a fearful fool. Instead of listening and hearing Ivan
Ilyitch to the end, he suddenly flushed crimson in the silliest way, began
with positively unseemly haste making strange little bows, and at the same
time edging towards the door. His whole appearance betrayed a desire to
sink through the floor, or more accurately, to get back to his table as
quickly as possible. Ivan Ilyitch, left alone, got up from his chair in
confusion; he looked in the looking-glass without noticing his face.

"No, severity, severity and nothing but severity," he whispered almost
unconsciously, and suddenly a vivid flush over-spread his face. He felt
suddenly more ashamed, more weighed down than he had been in the most
insufferable moments of his eight days of tribulation. "I did break down!"
he said to himself, and sank helplessly into his chair.

ANOTHER MAN'S WIFE

OR

THE HUSBAND UNDER THE BED

AN EXTRAORDINARY ADVENTURE

I

"Be so kind, sir ... allow me to ask you...."

The gentleman so addressed started and looked with some alarm at the
gentleman in raccoon furs who had accosted him so abruptly at eight o'clock
in the evening in the street. We all know that if a Petersburg gentleman
suddenly in the street speaks to another gentleman with whom he is
unacquainted, the second gentleman is invariably alarmed.

And so the gentleman addressed started and was somewhat alarmed.

"Excuse me for troubling you," said the gentleman in raccoon, "but I ... I
really don't know ... you will pardon me, no doubt; you see, I am a little
upset...."

Only then the young man in the wadded overcoat observed that this gentleman
in the raccoon furs certainly was upset. His wrinkled face was rather pale,
his voice was trembling. He was evidently in some confusion of mind, his
words did not flow easily from his tongue, and it could be seen that it
cost him a terrible effort to present a very humble request to a personage
possibly his inferior in rank or condition, in spite of the urgent
necessity of addressing his request to somebody. And indeed the request was
in any case unseemly, undignified, strange, coming from a man who had such
a dignified fur coat, such a respectable jacket of a superb dark green
colour, and such distinguished decorations adorning that jacket. It was
evident that the gentleman in raccoon was himself confused by all this, so
that at last he could not stand it, but made up his mind to suppress his
emotion and politely to put an end to the unpleasant position he had
himself brought about.

"Excuse me, I am not myself: but it is true you don't know me ... forgive
me for disturbing you; I have changed my mind."

Here, from politeness, he raised his hat and hurried off.

"But allow me...."

The little gentleman had, however, vanished into the darkness, leaving the
gentleman in the wadded overcoat in a state of stupefaction.

"What a queer fellow!" thought the gentleman in the wadded overcoat. After
wondering, as was only natural, and recovering at last from his
stupefaction, he bethought him of his own affairs, and began walking to and
fro, staring intently at the gates of a house with an endless number of
storeys. A fog was beginning to come on, and the young man was somewhat
relieved at it, for his walking up and down was less noticeable in the fog,
though indeed no one could have noticed him but some cabman who had been
waiting all day without a fare.

"Excuse me!"

The young man started again; again the gentleman in raccoon was standing
before him.

"Excuse me again ..." he began, "but you ... you are no doubt an honourable
man! Take no notice of my social position ... but I am getting muddled ...
look at it as man to man ... you see before you, sir, a man craving a
humble favour...."

"If I can.... What do you want?"

"You imagine, perhaps, that I am asking for money," said the mysterious
gentleman, with a wry smile, laughing hysterically and turning pale.

"Oh, dear, no."

"No, I see that I am tiresome to you! Excuse me, I cannot bear myself;
consider that you are seeing a man in an agitated condition, almost of
insanity, and do not draw any conclusion...."

"But to the point, to the point," responded the young man, nodding his head
encouragingly and impatiently.

"Now think of that! A young man like you reminding me to keep to the point,
as though I were some heedless boy! I must certainly be doting!... How do I
seem to you in my degrading position? Tell me frankly."

The young man was overcome with confusion, and said nothing.

"Allow me to ask you openly: have you not seen a lady? That is all that I
have to ask you," the gentleman in the raccoon coat said resolutely at
last.

"Lady?"

"Yes, a lady."

"Yes, I have seen ... but I must say lots of them have passed...."

"Just so," answered the mysterious gentleman, with a bitter smile. "I am
muddled, I did not mean to ask that; excuse me, I meant to say, haven't you
seen a lady in a fox fur cape, in a dark velvet hood and a black veil?"

"No, I haven't noticed one like that ... no. I think I haven't seen one."

"Well, in that case, excuse me!"

The young man wanted to ask a question, but the gentleman in raccoon
vanished again; again he left his patient listener in a state of
stupefaction.

"Well, the devil take him!" thought the young man in the wadded overcoat,
evidently troubled.

With annoyance he turned up his beaver collar, and began cautiously
walking to and fro again before the gates of the house of many storeys. He
was raging inwardly.

"Why doesn't she come out?" he thought. "It will soon be eight o'clock."

The town clock struck eight.

"Oh, devil take you!"

"Excuse me!..."

"Excuse me for speaking like that ... but you came upon me so suddenly that
you quite frightened me," said the young man, frowning and apologising.

"Here I am again. I must strike you as tiresome and queer."

"Be so good as to explain at once, without more ado; I don't know what it
is you want...."

"You are in a hurry. Do you see, I will tell you everything openly, without
wasting words. It cannot be helped. Circumstances sometimes bring together
people of very different characters.... But I see you are impatient, young
man.... So here ... though I really don't know how to tell you: I am
looking for a lady (I have made up my mind to tell you all about it). You
see, I must know where that lady has gone. Who she is--I imagine there is
no need for you to know her name, young man."

"Well, well, what next?"

"What next? But what a tone you take with me! Excuse me, but perhaps I have
offended you by calling you young man, but I had nothing ... in short, if
you are willing to do me a very great service, here it is: a lady--that is,
I mean a gentlewoman of a very good family, of my acquaintance ... I have
been commissioned ... I have no family, you see...."

"Oh!"

"Put yourself in my position, young man (ah, I've done it again; excuse me,
I keep calling you young man). Every minute is precious.... Only fancy,
that lady ... but cannot you tell me who lives in this house?"

"But ... lots of people live here."

"Yes, that is, you are perfectly right," answered the gentleman in raccoon,
giving a slight laugh for the sake of good manners. "I feel I am rather
muddled.... But why do you take that tone? You see, I admit frankly that I
am muddled, and however haughty you are, you have seen enough of my
humiliation to satisfy you.... I say a lady of honourable conduct, that is,
of light tendencies--excuse me, I am so confused; it is as though I were
speaking of literature--Paul de Kock is supposed to be of light tendencies,
and all the trouble comes from him, you see...."

The young man looked compassionately at the gentleman in raccoon, who
seemed in a hopeless muddle and pausing, stared at him with a meaningless
smile and with a trembling hand for no apparent reason gripped the lappet
of his wadded overcoat.

"You ask who lives here?" said the young man, stepping back a little.

"Yes; you told me lots of people live here."

"Here ... I know that Sofya Ostafyevna lives here, too," the young man
brought out in a low and even commiserating tone.

"There, you see, you see! You know something, young man?"

"I assure you I don't, I know nothing ... I judged from your troubled
air...."

"I have just learned from the cook that she does come here; but you are on
the wrong tack, that is, with Sofya Ostafyevna ... she does not know
her...."

"No? Oh ... I beg your pardon, then...."

"I see this is of no interest to you, young man," said the queer man, with
bitter irony.

"Listen," said the young man, hesitating. "I really don't understand why
you are in such a state, but tell me frankly, I suppose you are being
deceived?" The young man smiled approvingly. "We shall understand one
another, anyway," he added, and his whole person loftily betrayed an
inclination to make a half-bow.

"You crush me! But I frankly confess that is just it ... but it happens to
every one!... I am deeply touched by your sympathy. To be sure, among young
men ... though I am not young; but you know, habit, a bachelor life, among
bachelors, we all know...."

"Oh, yes, we all know, we all know! But in what way can I be of assistance
to you?"

"Why, look here: admitting a visit to Sofya Ostafyevna ... though I don't
know for a fact where the lady has gone, I only know that she is in that
house; but seeing you walking up and down, and I am walking up and down on
the same side myself, I thought ... you see, I am waiting for that lady ...
I know that she is there. I should like to meet her and explain to her how
shocking and improper it is!... In fact, you understand me...."

"H'm! Well?"

"I am not acting for myself; don't imagine it; it is another man's wife!
Her husband is standing over there on the Voznesensky Bridge; he wants to
catch her, but he doesn't dare; he is still loath to believe it, as every
husband is." (Here the gentleman in raccoon made an effort to smile.) "I am
a friend of his; you can see for yourself I am a person held in some
esteem; I could not be what you take me for."

"Oh, of course. Well, well!"

"So, you see, I am on the look out for her. The task has been entrusted to
me (the unhappy husband!). But I know that the young lady is sly (Paul de
Kock for ever under her pillow); I am certain she scurries off somewhere on
the sly.... I must confess the cook told me she comes here; I rushed off
like a madman as soon as I heard the news; I want to catch her. I have long
had suspicions, and so I wanted to ask you; you are walking here ...
you--you--I don't know...."

"Come, what is it you want?"

"Yes ... I have not the honour of your acquaintance; I do not venture to
inquire who and what you may be.... Allow me to introduce myself, anyway;
glad to meet you!..."

The gentleman, quivering with agitation, warmly shook the young man's hand.

"I ought to have done this to begin with," he added, "but I have lost all
sense of good manners."

The gentleman in raccoon could not stand still as he talked; he kept
looking about him uneasily, fidgeted with his feet, and like a drowning man
clutched at the young man's hand.

"You see," he went on, "I meant to address you in a friendly way.... Excuse
the freedom.... I meant to ask you to walk along the other side and down
the side street, where there is a back entrance. I, too, on my side, will
walk from the front entrance, so that we cannot miss her; I'm afraid of
missing her by myself; I don't want to miss her. When you see her, stop her
and shout to me.... But I'm mad! Only now I see the foolishness and
impropriety of my suggestion!..."

"No, why, no! It's all right!..."

"Don't make excuses for me; I am so upset. I have never been in such a
state before. As though I were being tried for my life! I must own
indeed--I will be straightforward and honourable with you, young man; I
actually thought you might be the lover."

"That is, to put it simply, you want to know what I am doing here?"

"You are an honourable man, my dear sir. I am far from supposing that you
are _he_, I will not insult you with such a suspicion; but ... give me your
word of honour that you are not the lover...."

"Oh, very well, I'll give you my word of honour that I am a lover, but not
of your wife; otherwise I shouldn't be here in the street, but should be
with her now!"

"Wife! Who told you she was my wife, young man? I am a bachelor, I--that
is, I am a lover myself...."

"You told me there is a husband on Voznesensky Bridge...."

"Of course, of course, I am talking too freely; but there are other ties!
And you know, young man, a certain lightness of character, that is...."

"Yes, yes, to be sure, to be sure...."

"That is, I am not her husband at all...."

"Oh, no doubt. But I tell you frankly that in reassuring you now, I want to
set my own mind at rest, and that is why I am candid with you; you are
upsetting me and in my way. I promise that I will call you. But I most
humbly beg you to move further away and let me alone. I am waiting for some
one too."

"Certainly, certainly, I will move further off. I respect the passionate
impatience of your heart. Oh, how well I understand you at this moment!"

"Oh, all right, all right...."

"Till we meet again!... But excuse me, young man, here I am again ... I
don't know how to say it ... give me your word of honour once more, as a
gentleman, that you are not her lover."

"Oh, mercy on us!"

"One more question, the last: do you know the surname of the husband of
your ... that is, I mean the lady who is the object of your devotion?"

"Of course I do; it is not your name, and that is all about it."

"Why, how do you know my name?"

"But, I say, you had better go; you are losing time; she might go away a
thousand times. Why, what do you want? Your lady's in a fox cape and a
hood, while mine is wearing a plaid cloak and a pale blue velvet hat....
What more do you want? What else?"

"A pale blue velvet hat! She has a plaid cloak and a pale blue velvet hat!"
cried the pertinacious man, instantly turning back again.

"Oh, hang it all! Why, that may well be.... And, indeed, my lady does not
come here!"

"Where is she, then--your lady?"

"You want to know that? What is it to you?"

"I must own, I am still...."

"Tfoo! Mercy on us! Why, you have no sense of decency, none at all. Well,
my lady has friends here, on the third storey looking into the street. Why,
do you want me to tell you their names?"

"My goodness, I have friends too, who live on the third storey, and their
windows look on to the street.... General...."

"General!"

"A general. If you like I will tell you what general: well, then ...
General Polovitsyn."

"You don't say so! No, that is not the same! (Oh, damnation, damnation!)."

"Not the same?"

"No, not the same."

Both were silent, looking at each other in perplexity.

"Why are you looking at me like that?" exclaimed the young man, shaking off
his stupefaction and air of uncertainty with vexation.

The gentleman was in a fluster.

"I ... I must own...."

"Come, allow me, allow me; let us talk more sensibly now. It concerns us
both. Explain to me ... whom do you know there?"

"You mean, who are my friends?"

"Yes, your friends...."

"Well, you see ... you see!... I see from your eyes that I have guessed
right!"

"Hang it all! No, no, hang it all! Are you blind? Why, I am standing here
before you, I am not with her. Oh, well! I don't care, whether you say so
or not!"

Twice in his fury the young man turned on his heel with a contemptuous wave
of his hand.

"Oh, I meant nothing, I assure you. As an honourable man I will tell you
all about it. At first my wife used to come here alone. They are relatives
of hers; I had no suspicions; yesterday I met his Excellency: he told me
that he had moved three weeks ago from here to another flat, and my wi ...
that is, not mine, but somebody else's (the husband's on the Voznesensky
Bridge) ... that lady had told me that she was with them the day before
yesterday, in this flat I mean ... and the cook told me that his
Excellency's flat had been taken by a young man called Bobynitsyn...."

"Oh, damn it all, damn it all!..."

"My dear sir, I am in terror, I am in alarm!"

"Oh, hang it! What is it to me that you are in terror and in alarm? Ah!
Over there ... some one flitted by ... over there...."

"Where, where? You just shout, 'Ivan Andreyitch,' and I will run...."

"All right, all right. Oh, confound it! Ivan Andreyitch!"

"Here I am," cried Ivan Andreyitch, returning, utterly breathless. "What is
it, what is it? Where?"

"Oh, no, I didn't mean anything ... I wanted to know what this lady's name
is."

"Glaf...."

"Glafira?"

"No, not Glafira.... Excuse me, I cannot tell you her name."

As he said this the worthy man was as white as a sheet.

"Oh, of course it is not Glafira, I know it is not Glafira, and mine's not
Glafira; but with whom can she be?"

"Where?"

"There! Oh, damn it, damn it!" (The young man was in such a fury that he
could not stand still.)

"There, you see! How did you know that her name was Glafira?"

"Oh, damn it all, really! To have a bother with you, too! Why, you
say--that yours is not called Glafira!..."

"My dear sir, what a way to speak!"

"Oh, the devil! As though that mattered now! What is she? Your wife?"

"No--that is, I am not married.... But I would not keep flinging the devil
at a respectable man in trouble, a man, I will not say worthy of esteem,
but at any rate a man of education. You keep saying, 'The devil, the
devil!'"

"To be sure, the devil take it; so there you are, do you understand?"

"You are blinded by anger, and I say nothing. Oh, dear, who is that?"

"Where?"

There was a noise and a sound of laughter; two pretty girls ran down the
steps; both the men rushed up to them.

"Oh, what manners! What do you want?"

"Where are you shoving?"

"They are not the right ones!"

"Aha, so you've pitched on the wrong ones! Cab!"

"Where do you want to go, mademoiselle?"

"To Pokrov. Get in, Annushka; I'll take you."

"Oh, I'll sit on the other side; off! Now, mind you drive quickly."

The cab drove off.

"Where did they come from?"

"Oh, dear, oh, dear! Hadn't we better go there?"

"Where?"

"Why, to Bobynitsyn's...."

"No, that's out of the question."

"Why?"

"I would go there, of course, but then she would tell me some other story;
she would ... get out of it. She would say that she had come on purpose to
catch me with some one, and I should get into trouble."

"And, you know, she may be there! But you--I don't know for what
reason--why, you might go to the general's...."

"But, you know, he has moved!"

"That doesn't matter, you know. She has gone there; so you go, too--don't
you understand? Behave as though you didn't know the general had gone away.
Go as though you had come to fetch your wife, and so on."

"And then?"

"Well, and then find the person you want at Bobynitsyn's. Tfoo, damnation
take you, what a senseless...."

"Well, and what is it to you, my finding? You see, you see!"

"What, what, my good man? What? You are on the same old tack again. Oh,
Lord have mercy on us! You ought to be ashamed, you absurd person, you
senseless person!"

"Yes, but why are you so interested? Do you want to find out...."

"Find out what? What? Oh, well, damnation take you! I have no thoughts for
you now; I'll go alone. Go away; get along; look out; be off!"

"My dear sir, you are almost forgetting yourself!" cried the gentleman in
raccoon in despair.

"Well, what of it? What if I am forgetting myself?" said the young man,
setting his teeth and stepping up to the gentleman in raccoon in a fury.
"What of it? Forgetting myself before whom?" he thundered, clenching his
fists.

"But allow me, sir...."

"Well, who are you, before whom I am forgetting myself? What is your name?"

"I don't know about that, young man; why do you want my name?... I cannot
tell it you.... I better come with you. Let us go; I won't hang back; I am
ready for anything.... But I assure you I deserve greater politeness and
respect! You ought never to lose your self-possession, and if you are upset
about something--I can guess what about--at any rate there is no need to
forget yourself.... You are still a very, very young man!..."

"What is it to me that you are old? There's nothing wonderful in that! Go
away. Why are you dancing about here?"

"How am I old? Of course, in position; but I am not dancing about...."

"I can see that. But get away with you."

"No, I'll stay with you; you cannot forbid me; I am mixed up in it, too; I
will come with you...."

"Well, then, keep quiet, keep quiet, hold your tongue...."

They both went up the steps and ascended the stairs to the third storey. It
was rather dark.

"Stay; have you got matches?"

"Matches! What matches?"

"Do you smoke cigars?"

"Oh, yes, I have, I have; here they are, here they are; here, stay...." The
gentleman in raccoon rummaged in a fluster.

"Tfoo, what a senseless ... damnation! I believe this is the door...."

"This, this, this?"

"This, this, this... Why are you bawling? Hush!..."

"My dear sir, overcoming my feelings, I ... you are a reckless fellow, so
there!..."

The light flared up.

"Yes, so it is; here is the brass plate. This is Bobynitsyn's; do you see
Bobynitsyn?"

"I see it, I see it."

"Hu-ush!"

"Why, has it gone out?"

"Yes, it has."

"Should we knock?"

"Yes, we must," responded the gentleman in raccoon.

"Knock, then."

"No, why should I? You begin, you knock!"

"Coward!"

"You are a coward yourself!"

"G-et a-way with you!"

"I almost regret having confided my secret to you; you...."

"I--what about me?"

"You take advantage of my distress; you see that I am upset...."

"But do I care? I think it's ridiculous, that's all about it!"

"Why are you here?"

"Why are you here, too?..."

"Delightful morality!" observed the gentleman in raccoon, with indignation.

"What are you saying about morality? What are you?"

"Well, it's immoral!"

"What?..."

"Why, to your thinking, every deceived husband is a noodle!"

"Why, are you the husband? I thought the husband was on Voznesensky
Bridge? So what is it to you? Why do you meddle?"

"I do believe that you are the lover!..."

"Listen: if you go on like this I shall be forced to think you are a
noodle! That is, do you know who?"

"That is, you mean to say that I am the husband," said the gentleman in
raccoon, stepping back as though he were scalded with boiling water.

"Hush, hold your tongue. Do you hear?..."

"It is she."

"No!"

"Tfoo, how dark it is!"

There was a hush; a sound was audible in Bobynitsyn's flat.

"Why should we quarrel, sir?" whispered the gentleman in raccoon.

"But you took offence yourself, damn it all!"

"But you drove me out of all patience."

"Hold your tongue!"

"You must admit that you are a very young man."

"Hold your tongue!"

"Of course I share your idea, that a husband in such a position is a
noodle."

"Oh, will you hold your tongue? Oh!..."

"But why such savage persecution of the unfortunate husband?..."

"It is she!"

But at that moment the sound ceased.

"Is it she?"

"It is, it is, it is! But why are you--you worrying about it? It is not
your trouble!"

"My dear sir, my dear sir," muttered the gentleman in raccoon, turning
pale and gulping, "I am, of course, greatly agitated ... you can see for
yourself my abject position; but now it's night, of course, but
to-morrow ... though indeed we are not likely to meet to-morrow, though
I am not afraid of meeting you--and besides, it is not I, it is my
friend on the Voznesensky Bridge, it really is he! It is his wife, it is
somebody else's wife. Poor fellow! I assure you, I know him very
intimately; if you will allow me I will tell you all about it. I am a
great friend of his, as you can see for yourself, or I shouldn't be in
such a state about him now--as you see for yourself. Several times I
said to him: 'Why are you getting married, dear boy? You have position,
you have means, you are highly respected. Why risk it all at the caprice
of coquetry? You must see that.' 'No, I am going to be married,' he
said; 'domestic bliss.'... Here's domestic bliss for you! In old days he
deceived other husbands ... now he is drinking the cup ... you must
excuse me, but this explanation was absolutely necessary.... He is an
unfortunate man, and is drinking the cup--now!..." At this point the
gentleman in raccoon gave such a gulp that he seemed to be sobbing in
earnest.

"Ah, damnation take them all! There are plenty of fools. But who are you?"

The young man ground his teeth in anger.

"Well, you must admit after this that I have been gentlemanly and open with
you ... and you take such a tone!"

"No, excuse me ... what is your name?"

"Why do you want to know my name?..."

"Ah!"

"I cannot tell you my name...."

"Do you know Shabrin?" the young man said quickly.

"Shabrin!!!"

"Yes, Shabrin! Ah!!!" (Saying this, the gentleman in the wadded overcoat
mimicked the gentleman in raccoon.) "Do you understand?"

"No, what Shabrin?" answered the gentleman in raccoon, in a fluster. "He's
not Shabrin; he is a very respectable man! I can excuse your discourtesy,
due to the tortures of jealousy."

"He's a scoundrel, a mercenary soul, a rogue that takes bribes, he steals
government money! He'll be had up for it before long!"

"Excuse me," said the gentleman in raccoon, turning pale, "you don't know
him; I see that you don't know him at all."

"No, I don't know him personally, but I know him from others who are in
close touch with him."

"From what others, sir? I am agitated, as you see...."

"A fool! A jealous idiot! He doesn't look after his wife! That's what he
is, if you like to know!"

"Excuse me, young man, you are grievously mistaken...."

"Oh!"

"Oh!"

A sound was heard in Bobynitsyn's flat. A door was opened, voices were
heard.

"Oh, that's not she! I recognise her voice; I understand it all now, this
is not she!" said the gentleman in raccoon, turning as white as a sheet.

"Hush!"

The young man leaned against the wall.

"My dear sir, I am off. It is not she, I am glad to say."

"All right! Be off, then!"

"Why are you staying, then?"

"What's that to you?"

The door opened, and the gentleman in raccoon could not refrain from
dashing headlong downstairs.

A man and a woman walked by the young man, and his heart stood still.... He
heard a familiar feminine voice and then a husky male voice, utterly
unfamiliar.

"Never mind, I will order the sledge," said the husky voice.

"Oh, yes, yes; very well, do...."

"It will be here directly."

The lady was left alone.

"Glafira! Where are your vows?" cried the young man in the wadded overcoat,
clutching the lady's arm.

"Oh, who is it? It's you, Tvorogov? My goodness! What are you doing here?"

"Who is it you have been with here?"

"Why, my husband. Go away, go away; he'll be coming out directly ...
from ... in there ... from the Polovitsyns'. Go away; for goodness'
sake, go away."

"It's three weeks since the Polovitsyns moved! I know all about it!"

"_Aïe!_" The lady dashed downstairs. The young man overtook her.

"Who told you?" asked the lady.

"Your husband, madam, Ivan Andreyitch; he is here before you, madam...."

Ivan Andreyitch was indeed standing at the front door.

"_Aïe_, it's you," cried the gentleman in raccoon.

"Ah! _C'est vous_," cried Glafira Petrovna, rushing up to him with
unfeigned delight. "Oh, dear, you can't think what has been happening to
me. I went to see the Polovitsyns; only fancy ... you know they are living
now by Izmailovsky Bridge; I told you, do you remember? I took a sledge
from there. The horses took fright and bolted, they broke the sledge, and I
was thrown out about a hundred yards from here; the coachman was taken up;
I was in despair. Fortunately Monsieur Tvorogov ..."

"What!"

Monsieur Tvorogov was more like a fossil than like Monsieur Tvorogov.

"Monsieur Tvorogov saw me here and undertook to escort me; but now you are
here, and I can only express my warm gratitude to you, Ivan Ilyitch...."

The lady gave her hand to the stupefied Ivan Ilyitch, and almost pinched
instead of pressing it.

"Monsieur Tvorogov, an acquaintance of mine; it was at the Skorlupovs' ball
we had the pleasure of meeting; I believe I told you; don't you remember,
Koko?"

"Oh, of course, of course! Ah, I remember," said the gentleman in raccoon
addressed as Koko. "Delighted, delighted!" And he warmly pressed the hand
of Monsieur Tvorogov.

"Who is it? What does it mean? I am waiting...." said a husky voice.

Before the group stood a gentleman of extraordinary height; he took out a
lorgnette and looked intently at the gentleman in the raccoon coat.

"Ah, Monsieur Bobynitsyn!" twittered the lady. "Where have you come from?
What a meeting! Only fancy, I have just had an upset in a sledge ... but
here is my husband! Jean! Monsieur Bobynitsyn, at the Karpovs' ball...."

"Ah, delighted, very much delighted!... But I'll take a carriage at once,
my dear."

"Yes, do, Jean, do; I still feel frightened; I am all of a tremble, I feel
quite giddy.... At the masquerade to-night," she whispered to Tvorogov....
"Good-bye, good-bye, Mr. Bobynitsyn! We shall meet to-morrow at the
Karpovs' ball, most likely."

"No, excuse me, I shall not be there to-morrow; I don't know about
to-morrow, if it is like this now...." Mr. Bobynitsyn muttered something
between his teeth, made a scrape with his boot, got into his sledge and
drove away.

A carriage drove up; the lady got into it. The gentleman in the raccoon
coat stopped, seemed incapable of making a movement and gazed blankly at
the gentleman in the wadded coat. The gentleman in the wadded coat smiled
rather foolishly.

"I don't know...."

"Excuse me, delighted to make your acquaintance," answered the young man,
bowing with curiosity and a little intimidated.

"Delighted, delighted!..."

"I think you have lost your galosh...."

"I--oh, yes, thank you, thank you. I keep meaning to get rubber ones."

"The foot gets so hot in rubbers," said the young man, apparently with
immense interest.

"_Jean!_ Are you coming?"

"It does make it hot. Coming directly, darling; we are having an
interesting conversation! Precisely so, as you say, it does make the foot
hot.... But excuse me, I ..."

"Oh, certainly."

"Delighted, very much delighted to make your acquaintance!..."

The gentleman in raccoon got into the carriage, the carriage set off, the
young man remained standing looking after it in astonishment.

II

The following evening there was a performance of some sort at the Italian
opera. Ivan Andreyitch burst into the theatre like a bomb. Such furore,
such a passion for music had never been observed in him before. It was
known for a positive fact, anyway, that Ivan Andreyitch used to be
exceeding fond of a nap for an hour or two at the Italian opera; he even
declared on several occasions how sweet and pleasant it was. "Why, the
prima donna," he used to say to his friends, "mews a lullaby to you like a
little white kitten." But it was a long time ago, last season, that he used
to say this; now, alas! even at home Ivan Andreyitch did not sleep at
nights. Nevertheless he burst into the crowded opera-house like a bomb.
Even the conductor started suspiciously at the sight of him, and glanced
out of the corner of his eye at his side-pocket in the full expectation of
seeing the hilt of a dagger hidden there in readiness. It must be observed
that there were at that time two parties, each supporting the superior
claims of its favourite prima donna. They were called the ----_sists_ and
the ----_nists_. Both parties were so devoted to music, that the conductors
actually began to be apprehensive of some startling manifestation of the
passion for the good and the beautiful embodied in the two prima donnas.
This was how it was that, looking at this youthful dash into the parterre
of a grey-haired senior (though, indeed, he was not actually grey-haired,
but a man about fifty, rather bald, and altogether of respectable
appearance), the conductor could not help recalling the lofty judgment of
Hamlet Prince of Denmark upon the evil example set by age to youth, and, as
we have mentioned above, looking out of the corner of his eye at the
gentleman's side-pocket in the expectation of seeing a dagger. But there
was a pocket-book and nothing else there.

Darting into the theatre, Ivan Andreyitch instantly scanned all the boxes
of the second tier, and, oh--horror! His heart stood still, she was here!
She was sitting in the box! General Polovitsyn, with his wife and
sister-in-law, was there too. The general's adjutant--an extremely alert
young man, was there too; there was a civilian too.... Ivan Andreyitch
strained his attention and his eyesight, but--oh, horror! The civilian
treacherously concealed himself behind the adjutant and remained in the
darkness of obscurity.

She was here, and yet she had said she would not be here!

It was this duplicity for some time displayed in every step Glafira
Petrovna took which crushed Ivan Andreyitch. This civilian youth reduced
him at last to utter despair. He sank down in his stall utterly
overwhelmed. Why? one may ask. It was a very simple matter....

It must be observed that Ivan Andreyitch's stall was close to the
baignoire, and to make matters worse the treacherous box in the second tier
was exactly above his stall, so that to his intense annoyance he was
utterly unable to see what was going on over his head. At which he raged,
and got as hot as a samovar. The whole of the first act passed unnoticed by
him, that is, he did not hear a single note of it. It is maintained that
what is good in music is that musical impressions can be made to fit any
mood. The man who rejoices finds joy in its strains, while he who grieves
finds sorrow in it; a regular tempest was howling in Ivan Andreyitch's
ears. To add to his vexation, such terrible voices were shouting behind
him, before him and on both sides of him, that Ivan Andreyitch's heart was
torn. At last the act was over. But at the instant when the curtain was
falling, our hero had an adventure such as no pen can describe.

It sometimes happens that a playbill flies down from the upper boxes. When
the play is dull and the audience is yawning this is quite an event for
them. They watch with particular interest the flight of the extremely soft
paper from the upper gallery, and take pleasure in watching its zigzagging
journey down to the very stalls, where it infallibly settles on some head
which is quite unprepared to receive it. It is certainly very interesting
to watch the embarrassment of the head (for the head is invariably
embarrassed). I am indeed always in terror over the ladies' opera-glasses
which usually lie on the edge of the boxes; I am constantly fancying that
they will fly down on some unsuspecting head. But I perceive that this
tragic observation is out of place here, and so I shall send it to the
columns of those newspapers which are filled with advice, warnings against
swindling tricks, against unconscientiousness, hints for getting rid of
beetles if you have them in the house, recommendations of the celebrated
Mr. Princhipi, sworn foe of all beetles in the world, not only Russian but
even foreign, such as Prussian cockroaches, and so on.

But Ivan Andreyitch had an adventure, which has never hitherto been
described. There flew down on his--as already stated, somewhat bald--head,
not a playbill; I confess I am actually ashamed to say what did fly down
upon his head, because I am really loath to remark that on the respectable
and bare--that is, partly hairless--head of the jealous and irritated Ivan
Andreyitch there settled such an immoral object as a scented love-letter.
Poor Ivan Andreyitch, utterly unprepared for this unforeseen and hideous
occurrence, started as though he had caught upon his head a mouse or some
other wild beast.

That the note was a love-letter of that there could be no mistake. It was
written on scented paper, just as love-letters are written in novels, and
folded up so as to be treacherously small so that it might be slipped into
a lady's glove. It had probably fallen by accident at the moment it had
been handed to her. The playbill might have been asked for, for instance,
and the note, deftly folded in the playbill, was being put into her hands;
but an instant, perhaps an accidental, nudge from the adjutant, extremely
adroit in his apologies for his awkwardness, and the note had slipped from
a little hand that trembled with confusion, and the civilian youth,
stretching out his impatient hand, received instead of the note, the empty
playbill, and did not know what to do with it. A strange and unpleasant
incident for him, no doubt, but you must admit that for Ivan Andreyitch it
was still more unpleasant.

"_Prédestiné_," he murmured, breaking into a cold sweat and squeezing the
note in his hands, "_prédestiné!_ The bullet finds the guilty man," the
thought flashed through his mind. "No, that's not right! In what way am I
guilty? But there is another proverb, 'Once out of luck, never out of
trouble.'..."

But it was not enough that there was a ringing in his ears and a dizziness
in his head at this sudden incident. Ivan Andreyitch sat petrified in his
chair, as the saying is, more dead than alive. He was persuaded that his
adventure had been observed on all sides, although at that moment the whole
theatre began to be filled with uproar and calls of encore. He sat
overwhelmed with confusion, flushing crimson and not daring to raise his
eyes, as though some unpleasant surprise, something out of keeping with the
brilliant assembly had happened to him. At last he ventured to lift his
eyes.

"Charmingly sung," he observed to a dandy sitting on his left side.

The dandy, who was in the last stage of enthusiasm, clapping his hands and
still more actively stamping with his feet, gave Ivan Andreyitch a cursory
and absent-minded glance, and immediately putting up his hands like a
trumpet to his mouth, so as to be more audible, shouted the prima donna's
name. Ivan Andreyitch, who had never heard such a roar, was delighted. "He
has noticed nothing!" he thought, and turned round; but the stout gentleman
who was sitting behind him had turned round too, and with his back to him
was scrutinising the boxes through his opera-glass. "He is all right too!"
thought Ivan Andreyitch. In front, of course, nothing had been seen.
Timidly and with a joyous hope in his heart, he stole a glance at the
baignoire, near which was his stall, and started with the most unpleasant
sensation. A lovely lady was sitting there who, holding her handkerchief to
her mouth and leaning back in her chair, was laughing as though in
hysterics.

"Ugh, these women!" murmured Ivan Andreyitch, and treading on people's
feet, he made for the exit.

Now I ask my readers to decide, I beg them to judge between me and Ivan
Andreyitch. Was he right at that moment? The Grand Theatre, as we all know,
contains four tiers of boxes and a fifth row above the gallery. Why must he
assume that the note had fallen from one particular box, from that very box
and no other? Why not, for instance, from the gallery where there are often
ladies too? But passion is an exception to every rule, and jealousy is the
most exceptional of all passions.

Ivan Andreyitch rushed into the foyer, stood by the lamp, broke the seal
and read:

"To-day immediately after the performance, in G. Street at the corner of X.
Lane, K. buildings, on the third floor, the first on the right from the
stairs. The front entrance. Be there, _sans faute_; for God's sake."

Ivan Andreyitch did not know the handwriting, but he had no doubt it was an
assignation. "To track it out, to catch it and nip the mischief in the
bud," was Ivan Andreyitch's first idea. The thought occurred to him to
unmask the infamy at once on the spot; but how could it be done? Ivan
Andreyitch even ran up to the second row of boxes, but judiciously came
back again. He was utterly unable to decide where to run. Having nothing
clear he could do, he ran round to the other side and looked through the
open door of somebody else's box at the opposite side of the theatre. Yes,
it was so, it was! Young ladies and young men were sitting in all the seats
vertically one above another in all the five tiers. The note might have
fallen from all tiers at once, for Ivan Andreyitch suspected all of them of
being in a plot against him. But nothing made him any better, no
probabilities of any sort. The whole of the second act he was running up
and down all the corridors and could find no peace of mind anywhere. He
would have dashed into the box office in hope of finding from the attendant
there the names of the persons who had taken boxes on all the four tiers,
but the box office was shut. At last there came an outburst of furious
shouting and applause. The performance was over. Calls for the singers
began, and two voices from the top gallery were particularly deafening--the
leaders of the opposing factions. But they were not what mattered to Ivan
Andreyitch. Already thoughts of what he was to do next flitted through his
mind. He put on his overcoat and rushed off to G. Street to surprise them
there, to catch them unawares, to unmask them, and in general to behave
somewhat more energetically than he had done the day before. He soon found
the house, and was just going in at the front door, when the figure of a
dandy in an overcoat darted forward right in front of him, passed him and
went up the stairs to the third storey. It seemed to Ivan Andreyitch that
this was the same dandy, though he had not been able at the time to
distinguish his features in the theatre. His heart stood still. The dandy
was two flights of stairs ahead of him. At last he heard a door opened on
the third floor, and opened without the ringing of a bell, as though the
visitor was expected. The young man disappeared into the flat. Ivan
Andreyitch mounted to the third floor, before there was time to shut the
door. He meant to stand at the door, to reflect prudently on his next step,
to be rather cautious, and then to determine upon some decisive course of
action; but at that very minute a carriage rumbled up to the entrance, the
doors were flung open noisily, and heavy footsteps began ascending to the
third storey to the sound of coughing and clearing of the throat. Ivan
Andreyitch could not stand his ground, and walked into the flat with all
the majesty of an injured husband. A servant-maid rushed to meet him much
agitated, then a man-servant appeared. But to stop Ivan Andreyitch was
impossible. He flew in like a bomb, and crossing two dark rooms, suddenly
found himself in a bedroom facing a lovely young lady, who was trembling
all over with alarm and gazing at him in utter horror as though she could
not understand what was happening around her. At that instant there was a
sound in the adjoining room of heavy footsteps coming straight towards the
bedroom; they were the same footsteps that had been mounting the stairs.

"Goodness! It is my husband!" cried the lady, clasping her hands and
turning whiter than her dressing-gown.

Ivan Andreyitch felt that he had come to the wrong place, that he had made
a silly, childish blunder, that he had acted without due consideration,
that he had not been sufficiently cautious on the landing. But there was no
help for it. The door was already opening, already the heavy husband, that
is if he could be judged by his footsteps, was coming into the room.... I
don't know what Ivan Andreyitch took himself to be at that moment! I don't
know what prevented him from confronting the husband, telling him that he
had made a mistake, confessing that he had unintentionally behaved in the
most unseemly way, making his apologies and vanishing--not of course with
flying colours, not of course with glory, but at any rate departing in an
open and gentlemanly manner. But no, Ivan Andreyitch again behaved like a
boy, as though he considered himself a Don Juan or a Lovelace! He first hid
himself behind the curtain of the bed, and finally, feeling utterly
dejected and hopeless, he dropped on the floor and senselessly crept under
the bed. Terror had more influence on him than reason, and Ivan Andreyitch,
himself an injured husband, or at any rate a husband who considered himself
such, could not face meeting another husband, but was afraid to wound him
by his presence. Be this as it may, he found himself under the bed, though
he had no idea how it had come to pass. But what was most surprising, the
lady made no opposition. She did not cry out on seeing an utterly unknown
elderly gentleman seek a refuge under her bed. Probably she was so alarmed
that she was deprived of all power of speech.

The husband walked in gasping and clearing his throat, said good-evening to
his wife in a singsong, elderly voice, and flopped into an easy chair as
though he had just been carrying up a load of wood. There was a sound of a
hollow and prolonged cough. Ivan Andreyitch, transformed from a ferocious
tiger to a lamb, timid and meek as a mouse before a cat, scarcely dared to
breathe for terror, though he might have known from his own experience that
not all injured husbands bite. But this idea did not enter his head, either
from lack of consideration or from agitation of some sort. Cautiously,
softly, feeling his way he began to get right under the bed so as to lie
more comfortably there. What was his amazement when with his hand he felt
an object which, to his intense amazement, stirred and in its turn seized
his hand! Under the bed there was another person!

"Who's this?" whispered Ivan Andreyitch.

"Well, I am not likely to tell you who I am," whispered the strange man.
"Lie still and keep quiet, if you have made a mess of things!"

"But, I say!..."

"Hold your tongue!"

And the extra gentleman (for one was quite enough under the bed) the extra
gentleman squeezed Ivan Andreyitch's hand in his fist so that the latter
almost shrieked with pain.

"My dear sir...."

"Sh!"

"Then don't pinch me so, or I shall scream."

"All right, scream away, try it on."

Ivan Andreyitch flushed with shame. The unknown gentleman was sulky and
ill-humoured. Perhaps it was a man who had suffered more than once from the
persecutions of fate, and had more than once been in a tight place; but
Ivan Andreyitch was a novice and could not breathe in his constricted
position. The blood rushed to his head. However, there was no help for it;
he had to lie on his face. Ivan Andreyitch submitted and was silent.

"I have been to see Pavel Ivanitch, my love," began the husband. "We sat
down to a game of preference. Khee-khee-khee!" (he had a fit of coughing).
"Yes ... khee! So my back ... khee! Bother it ... khee-khee-khee!"

And the old gentleman became engrossed in his cough.

"My back," he brought out at last with tears in his eyes, "my spine began
to ache.... A damned hæmorrhoid, I can't stand nor sit ... or sit.
Akkhee-khee-khee!"...

And it seemed as though the cough that followed was destined to last longer
than the old gentleman in possession of it. The old gentleman grumbled
something in its intervals, but it was utterly impossible to make out a
word.

"Dear sir, for goodness' sake, move a little," whispered the unhappy Ivan
Andreyitch.

"How can I? There's no room."

"But you must admit that it is impossible for me. It is the first time that
I have found myself in such a nasty position."

"And I in such unpleasant society."

"But, young man!..."

"Hold your tongue!"

"Hold my tongue? You are very uncivil, young man.... If I am not mistaken,
you are very young; I am your senior."

"Hold your tongue!"

"My dear sir! You are forgetting yourself. You don't know to whom you are
talking!"

"To a gentleman lying under the bed."

"But I was taken by surprise ... a mistake, while in your case, if I am not
mistaken, immorality...."

"That's where you are mistaken."

"My dear sir! I am older than you, I tell you...."

"Sir, we are in the same boat, you know. I beg you not to take hold of my
face!"

"Sir, I can't tell one thing from another. Excuse me, but I have no room."

"You shouldn't be so fat!"

"Heavens! I have never been in such a degrading position."

"Yes, one couldn't be brought more low."

"Sir, sir! I don't know who you are, I don't understand how this came
about; but I am here by mistake; I am not what you think...."

"I shouldn't think about you at all if you didn't shove. But hold your
tongue, do!"

"Sir, if you don't move a little I shall have a stroke; you will have to
answer for my death, I assure you.... I am a respectable man, I am the
father of a family. I really cannot be in such a position!..."

"You thrust yourself into the position. Come, move a little! I've made room
for you, I can't do more!"

"Noble young man! Dear sir! I see I was mistaken about you," said Ivan
Andreyitch, in a transport of gratitude for the space allowed him, and
stretching out his cramped limbs. "I understand your constricted condition,
but there's no help for it. I see you think ill of me. Allow me to redeem
my reputation in your eyes, allow me to tell you who I am. I have come here
against my will, I assure you; I am not here with the object you
imagine.... I am in a terrible fright."

"Oh, do shut up! Understand that if we are overheard it will be the worse
for us. Sh!... He is talking."

The old gentleman's cough did, in fact, seem to be over.

"I tell you what, my love," he wheezed in the most lachrymose chant, "I
tell you what, my love ... khee-khee! Oh, what an affliction! Fedosey
Ivanovitch said to me: 'You should try drinking yarrow tea,' he said to me;
do you hear, my love?"

"Yes, dear."

"Yes, that was what he said, 'You should try drinking yarrow tea,' he said.
I told him I had put on leeches. But he said, 'No, Alexandr Demyanovitch,
yarrow tea is better, it's a laxative, I tell you' ... Khee-khee. Oh, dear!
What do you think, my love? Khee! Oh, my God! Khee-khee! Had I better try
yarrow tea?... Khee-khee-khee! Oh ... Khee!" and so on.

"I think it would be just as well to try that remedy," said his wife.

"Yes, it would be! 'You may be in consumption," he said. "Khee-khee! And I
told him it was gout and irritability of the stomach ... Khee-khee! But he
would have it that it might be consumption. What do you think ...
khee-khee! What do you think, my love; is it consumption?"

"My goodness, what are you talking about?"

"Why, consumption! You had better undress and go to bed now, my love ...
khee-khee! I've caught a cold in my head to-day."

"Ouf!" said Ivan Andreyitch. "For God's sake, do move a little."

"I really don't know what is the matter with you; can't you lie still?..."

"You are exasperated against me, young man, you want to wound me, I see
that. You are, I suppose, this lady's lover?"

"Shut up!"

"I will not shut up! I won't allow you to order me about! You are, no
doubt, her lover. If we are discovered I am not to blame in any way; I know
nothing about it."

"If you don't hold your tongue," said the young man, grinding his teeth, "I
will say that you brought me here. I'll say that you are my uncle who has
dissipated his fortune. Then they won't imagine I am this lady's lover,
anyway."

"Sir, you are amusing yourself at my expense. You are exhausting my
patience."

"Hush, or I will make you hush! You are a curse to me. Come, tell me what
you are here for? If you were not here I could lie here somehow till
morning, and then get away."

"But I can't lie here till morning. I am a respectable man, I have family
ties, of course.... What do you think, surely he is not going to spend the
night here?"

"Who?"

"Why, this old gentleman...."

"Of course he will. All husbands aren't like you. Some of them spend their
nights at home."

"My dear sir, my dear sir!" cried Ivan Andreyitch, turning cold with
terror, "I assure you I spend my nights at home too, and this is the first
time; but, my God, I see you know me. Who are you, young man? Tell me at
once, I beseech you, from disinterested friendship, who are you?"

"Listen, I shall resort to violence...."

"But allow me, allow me, sir, to tell you, allow me to explain all this
horrid business."

"I won't listen to any explanation. I don't want to know anything about it.
Be silent or...."

"But I cannot...."

A slight skirmish took place under the bed, and Ivan Andreyitch subsided.

"My love, it sounds as though there were cats hissing."

"Cats! What will you imagine next?"

Evidently the lady did not know what to talk to her husband about. She was
so upset that she could not pull herself together. Now she started and
pricked up her ears.

"What cats?"

"Cats, my love. The other day I went into my study, and there was the
tom-cat in my study, and hissing shoo-shoo-shoo! I said to him: 'What is
it, pussy?' and he went shoo-shoo-shoo again, as though he were whispering.
I thought, 'Merciful heavens! isn't he hissing as a sign of my death?'"

"What nonsense you are talking to-day! You ought to be ashamed, really!"

"Never mind, don't be cross, my love. I see, you don't like to think of me
dying; I didn't mean it. But you had better undress and get to bed, my
love, and I'll sit here while you go to bed."

"For goodness' sake, leave off; afterwards...."

"Well, don't be cross, don't be cross; but really I think there must be
mice here."

"Why, first cats and then mice, I really don't know what is the matter with
you."

"Oh, I am all right ... Khee ... I ... khee! Never mind ...
khee-khee-khee-khee! Oh! Lord have mercy on me ... khee."

"You hear, you are making such an upset that he hears you," whispers the
young man.

"But if you knew what is happening to me. My nose is bleeding."

"Let it bleed. Shut up. Wait till he goes away."

"But, young man, put yourself in my place. Why, I don't know with whom I am
lying."

"Would you be any better off if you did? Why, I don't want to know your
name. By the way, what is your name?"

"No; what do you want with my name?... I only want to explain the senseless
way in which...."

"Hush ... he is speaking again...."

"Really, my love, there is whispering."

"Oh, no, it's the cotton wool in your ears has got out of place."

"Oh, by the way, talking of the cotton wool, do you know that upstairs ...
khee-khee ... upstairs ... khee-khee ..." and so on.

"Upstairs!" whispered the young man. "Oh, the devil! I thought that this
was the top storey; can it be the second?"

"Young man," whispered Ivan Andreyitch, "what did you say? For goodness'
sake why does it concern you? I thought it was the top storey too. Tell me,
for God's sake, is there another storey?"

"Really some one is stirring," said the old man, leaving off coughing at
last.

"Hush! Do you hear?" whispered the young man, squeezing Ivan Andreyitch's
hands.

"Sir, you are holding my hands by force. Let me go!"

"Hush!"

A slight struggle followed and then there was a silence again.

"So I met a pretty woman ..." began the old man.

"A pretty woman!" interrupted his wife.

"Yes.... I thought I told you before that I met a pretty woman on the
stairs, or perhaps I did not mention it? My memory is weak. Yes, St. John's
wort ... khee!"

"What?"

"I must drink St. John's wort; they say it does good ... khee-khee-khee! It
does good!"

"It was you interrupted him," said the young man, grinding his teeth again.

"You said, you met some pretty woman to-day?" his wife went on.

"Eh?"

"Met a pretty woman?"

"Who did?"

"Why, didn't you?"

"I? When?"

"Oh, yes!..."

"At last! What a mummy! Well!" whispered the young man, inwardly raging at
the forgetful old gentleman.

"My dear sir, I am trembling with horror. My God, what do I hear? It's like
yesterday, exactly like yesterday!..."

"Hush!"

"Yes, to be sure! I remember, a sly puss, such eyes ... in a blue hat...."

"In a blue hat! _Aïe, aïe!_"

"It's she! She has a blue hat! My God!" cried Ivan Andreyitch.

"She? Who is she?" whispered the young man, squeezing Ivan Andreyitch's
hands.

"Hush!" Ivan Andreyitch exhorted in his turn. "He is speaking."

"Ah, my God, my God!"

"Though, after all, who hasn't a blue hat?"

"And such a sly little rogue," the old gentleman went on "She comes here to
see friends. She is always making eyes. And other friends come to see those
friends too...."

"Foo! how tedious!" the lady interrupted. "Really, how can you take
interest in that?"

"Oh, very well, very well, don't be cross," the old gentleman responded in
a wheedling chant. "I won't talk if you don't care to hear me. You seem a
little out of humour this evening."

"But how did you get here?" the young man began.

"Ah, you see, you see! Now you are interested, and before you wouldn't
listen!"

"Oh, well, I don't care! Please don't tell me. Oh, damnation take it, what
a mess!"

"Don't be cross, young man; I don't know what I am saying. I didn't mean
anything; I only meant to say that there must be some good reason for your
taking such an interest.... But who are you, young man? I see you are a
stranger, but who are you? Oh, dear, I don't know what I am saying!"

"Ugh, leave off, please!" the young man interrupted, as though he were
considering something.

"But I will tell you all about it. You think, perhaps, that I will not tell
you. That I feel resentment against you. Oh, no! Here is my hand. I am only
feeling depressed, nothing more. But for God's sake, first tell me how you
came here yourself? Through what chance? As for me, I feel no ill-will;
no, indeed, I feel no ill-will, here is my hand. I have made it rather
dirty, it is so dusty here; but that's nothing, when the feeling is true."

"Ugh, get away with your hand! There is no room to turn, and he keeps
thrusting his hand on me!"

"But, my dear sir, but you treat me, if you will allow me to say so, as
though I were an old shoe," said Ivan Andreyitch in a rush of the meekest
despair, in a voice full of entreaty. "Treat me a little more civilly, just
a little more civilly, and I will tell you all about it! We might be
friends; I am quite ready to ask you home to dinner. We can't lie side by
side like this, I tell you plainly. You are in error, young man, you do not
know...."

"When was it he met her?" the young man muttered, evidently in violent
emotion. "Perhaps she is expecting me now.... I'll certainly get away from
here!"

"She? Who is she? My God, of whom are you speaking, young man? You imagine
that upstairs.... My God, my God! Why am I punished like this?"

Ivan Andreyitch tried to turn on his back in his despair.

"Why do you want to know who she is? Oh, the devil whether it was she or
not, I will get out."

"My dear sir! What are you thinking about? What will become of me?"
whispered Ivan Andreyitch, clutching at the tails of his neighbour's dress
coat in his despair.

"Well, what's that to me? You can stop here by yourself. And if you won't,
I'll tell them that you are my uncle, who has squandered all his property,
so that the old gentleman won't think that I am his wife's lover."

"But that is utterly impossible, young man; it's unnatural I should be your
uncle. Nobody would believe you. Why, a baby wouldn't believe it," Ivan
Andreyitch whispered in despair.

"Well, don't babble then, but lie as flat as a pancake! Most likely you
will stay the night here and get out somehow to-morrow; no one will notice
you. If one creeps out, it is not likely they would think there was another
one here. There might as well be a dozen. Though you are as good as a dozen
by yourself. Move a little, or I'll get out."

"You wound me, young man.... What if I have a fit of coughing? One has to
think of everything."

"Hush!"

"What's that? I fancy I hear something going on upstairs again," said the
old gentleman, who seemed to have had a nap in the interval.

"Upstairs?"

"Do you hear, young man? I shall get out."

"Well, I hear."

"My goodness! Young man, I am going."

"Oh, well, I am not, then! I don't care. If there is an upset I don't mind!
But do you know what I suspect? I believe you are an injured husband--so
there."

"Good heavens, what cynicism!... Can you possibly suspect that? Why a
husband?... I am not married."

"Not married? Fiddlesticks!"

"I may be a lover myself!"

"A nice lover."

"My dear sir, my dear sir! Oh, very well, I will tell you the whole story.
Listen to my desperate story. It is not I--I am not married. I am a
bachelor like you. It is my friend, a companion of my youth.... I am a
lover.... He told me that he was an unhappy man. 'I am drinking the cup of
bitterness,' he said; 'I suspect my wife.' 'Well,' I said to him
reasonably, 'why do you suspect her?'... But you are not listening to me.
Listen, listen! 'Jealousy is ridiculous,' I said to him; 'jealousy is a
vice!'... 'No,' he said; 'I am an unhappy man! I am drinking ... that is, I
suspect my wife.' 'You are my friend,' I said; 'you are the companion of my
tender youth. Together we culled the flowers of happiness, together we
rolled in featherbeds of pleasure.' My goodness, I don't know what I am
saying. You keep laughing, young man. You'll drive me crazy."

"But you are crazy now...."

"There, I knew you would say that ... when I talked of being crazy. Laugh
away, laugh away, young man. I did the same in my day; I, too, went astray!
Ah, I shall have inflammation of the brain!"

"What is it, my love? I thought I heard some one sneeze," the old man
chanted. "Was that you sneezed, my love?"

"Oh, goodness!" said his wife.

"Tch!" sounded from under the bed.

"They must be making a noise upstairs," said his wife, alarmed, for there
certainly was a noise under the bed.

"Yes, upstairs!" said the husband. "Upstairs, I told you just now, I met
a ... khee-khee ... that I met a young swell with moustaches--oh, dear,
my spine!--a young swell with moustaches."

"With moustaches! My goodness, that must have been you," whispered Ivan
Andreyitch.

"Merciful heavens, what a man! Why, I am here, lying here with you! How
could he have met me? But don't take hold of my face."

"My goodness, I shall faint in a minute."

There certainly was a loud noise overhead at this moment.

"What can be happening there?" whispered the young man.

"My dear sir! I am in alarm, I am in terror, help me."

"Hush!"

"There really is a noise, my love; there's a regular hubbub. And just over
your bedroom, too. Hadn't I better send up to inquire?"

"Well, what will you think of next?"

"Oh, well, I won't; but really, how cross you are to-day!..."

"Oh, dear, you had better go to bed."

"Liza, you don't love me at all."

"Oh, yes, I do! For goodness' sake, I am so tired."

"Well, well; I am going!"

"Oh, no, no; don't go!" cried his wife; "or, no, better go!"

"Why, what is the matter with you! One minute I am to go, and the next I'm
not! Khee-khee! It really is bedtime, khee-khee! The Panafidins' little
girl ... khee-khee ... their little girl ... khee ... I saw their little
girl's Nuremburg doll ... khee-khee...."

"Well, now it's dolls!"

"Khee-khee ... a pretty doll ... khee-khee."

"He is saying good-bye," said the young man; "he is going, and we can get
away at once. Do you hear? You can rejoice!"

"Oh, God grant it!"

"It's a lesson to you...."

"Young man, a lesson for what!... I feel it ... but you are young, you
cannot teach me."

"I will, though.... Listen."

"Oh, dear, I am going to sneeze!..."

"Hush, if you dare."

"But what can I do, there is such a smell of mice here; I can't help it.
Take my handkerchief cut of my pocket; I can't stir.... Oh, my God, my God,
why am I so punished?"

"Here's your handkerchief! I will tell you what you are punished for. You
are jealous. Goodness knows on what grounds, you rush about like a madman,
burst into other people's flats, create a disturbance...."

"Young man, I have not created a disturbance."

"Hush!"

"Young man, you can't lecture to me about morals, I am more moral than
you."

"Hush!"

"Oh, my God--oh, my God!"

"You create a disturbance, you frighten a young lady, a timid woman who
does not know what to do for terror, and perhaps will be ill; you disturb a
venerable old man suffering from a complaint and who needs repose above
everything--and all this what for? Because you imagine some nonsense which
sets you running all over the neighbourhood! Do you understand what a
horrid position you are in now?"

"I do very well, sir! I feel it, but you have not the right...."

"Hold your tongue! What has right got to do with it? Do you understand that
this may have a tragic ending? Do you understand that the old man, who is
fond of his wife, may go out of his mind when he sees you creep out from
under the bed? But no, you are incapable of causing a tragedy! When you
crawl out, I expect every one who looks at you will laugh. I should like to
see you in the light; you must look very funny."

"And you. You must be funny, too, in that case. I should like to have a
look at you too."

"I dare say you would!"

"You must carry the stamp of immorality, young man."

"Ah! you are talking about morals, how do you know why I'm here? I am here
by mistake, I made a mistake in the storey. And the deuce knows why they
let me in, I suppose she must have been expecting some one (not you, of
course). I hid under the bed when I heard your stupid footsteps, when I saw
the lady was frightened. Besides, it was dark. And why should I justify
myself to you. You are a ridiculous, jealous old man, sir. Do you know why
I don't crawl out? Perhaps you imagine I am afraid to come out? No, sir, I
should have come out long ago, but I stay here from compassion for you.
Why, what would you be taken for, if I were not here? You'd stand facing
them, like a post, you know you wouldn't know what to do...."

"Why like that object? Couldn't you find anything else to compare me with,
young man? Why shouldn't I know what to do? I should know what to do."

"Oh, my goodness, how that wretched dog keeps barking!"

"Hush! Oh, it really is.... That's because you keep jabbering. You've waked
the dog, now there will be trouble."

The lady's dog, who had till then been sleeping on a pillow in the corner,
suddenly awoke, sniffed strangers and rushed under the bed with a loud
bark.

"Oh, my God, what a stupid dog!" whispered Ivan Andreyitch; "it will get us
all into trouble. Here's another affliction!"

"Oh, well, you are such a coward, that it may well be so."

"Ami, Ami, come here," cried the lady; "_ici, ici_." But the dog, without
heeding her, made straight for Ivan Andreyitch.

"Why is it Amishka keeps barking?" said the old gentleman. "There must be
mice or the cat under there. I seem to hear a sneezing ... and pussy had a
cold this morning."

"Lie still," whispered the young man. "Don't twist about! Perhaps it will
leave off."

"Sir, let go of my hands, sir! Why are you holding them?"

"Hush! Be quiet!"

"But mercy on us, young man, it will bite my nose. Do you want me to lose
my nose?"

A struggle followed, and Ivan Andreyitch got his hands free. The dog broke
into volleys of barking. Suddenly it ceased barking and gave a yelp.

"_Aïe!_" cried the lady.

"Monster! what are you doing?" cried the young man. "You will be the ruin
of us both! Why are you holding it? Good heavens, he is strangling it! Let
it go! Monster! You know nothing of the heart of women if you can do that!
She will betray us both if you strangle the dog."

But by now Ivan Andreyitch could hear nothing. He had succeeded in catching
the dog, and in a paroxysm of self-preservation had squeezed its throat.
The dog yelled and gave up the ghost.

"We are lost!" whispered the young man.

"Amishka! Amishka," cried the lady. "My God, what are they doing with my
Amishka? Amishka! Amishka! _Ici!_ Oh, the monsters! Barbarians! Oh, dear, I
feel giddy!"

"What is it, what is it?" cried the old gentleman, jumping up from his easy
chair. "What is the matter with you, my darling? Amishka! here, Amishka!
Amishka! Amishka!" cried the old gentleman, snapping with his fingers and
clicking with his tongue, and calling Amishka from under the bed. "Amishka,
_ici, ici_. The cat cannot have eaten him. The cat wants a thrashing, my
love, he hasn't had a beating for a whole month, the rogue. What do you
think? I'll talk to Praskovya Zaharyevna. But, my goodness, what is the
matter, my love? Oh, how white you are! Oh, oh, servants, servants!" and
the old gentleman ran about the room.

"Villains! Monsters!" cried the lady, sinking on the sofa.

"Who, who, who?" cried the old gentleman.

"There are people there, strangers, there under the bed! Oh, my God,
Amishka, Amishka, what have they done to you?"

"Good heavens, what people? Amishka.... Servants, servants, come here! Who
is there, who is there?" cried the old gentleman, snatching up a candle and
bending down under the bed. "Who is there?"

Ivan Andreyitch was lying more dead than alive beside the breathless corpse
of Amishka, but the young man was watching every movement of the old
gentleman. All at once the old gentleman went to the other side of the bed
by the wall and bent down. In a flash the young man crept out from under
the bed and took to his heels, while the husband was looking for his
visitors on the other side.

"Good gracious!" exclaimed the lady, staring at the young man. "Who are
you? Why, I thought...."

"That monster's still there," whispered the young man. "He is guilty of
Amishka's death!"

"_Aïe!_" shrieked the lady, but the young man had already vanished from the
room.

"_Aïe!_ There is some one here. Here are somebody's boots!" cried the
husband, catching Ivan Andreyitch by the leg.

"Murderer, murderer!" cried the lady. "Oh, Ami! Ami!"

"Come out, come out!" cried the old gentleman, stamping on the carpet with
both feet; "come out. Who are you? Tell me who you are! Good gracious, what
a queer person!"

"Why, it's robbers!..."

"For God's sake, for God's sake," cried Ivan Andreyitch creeping out, "for
God's sake, your Excellency, don't call the servants! Your Excellency,
don't call any one. It is quite unnecessary. You can't kick me out!... I am
not that sort of person. I am a different case. Your Excellency, it has all
been due to a mistake! I'll explain directly, your Excellency," exclaimed
Ivan Andreyitch, sobbing and gasping. "It's all my wife that is not my
wife, but somebody else's wife. I am not married, I am only.... It's my
comrade, a friend of youthful days."

"What friend of youthful days?" cried the old gentleman, stamping. "You are
a thief, you have come to steal ... and not a friend of youthful days."

"No, I am not a thief, your Excellency; I am really a friend of youthful
days.... I have only blundered by accident, I came into the wrong place."

"Yes, sir, yes; I see from what place you've crawled out."

"Your Excellency! I am not that sort of man. You are mistaken. I tell you,
you are cruelly mistaken, your Excellency. Only glance at me, look at me,
and by signs and tokens you will see that I can't be a thief. Your
Excellency! Your Excellency!" cried Ivan Andreyitch, folding his hands and
appealing to the young lady. "You are a lady, you will understand me....
It was I who killed Amishka.... But it was not my fault.... It was really
not my fault.... It was all my wife's fault. I am an unhappy man, I am
drinking the cup of bitterness!"

"But really, what has it to do with me that you are drinking the cup of
bitterness? Perhaps it's not the only cup you've drunk. It seems so, to
judge from your condition. But how did you come here, sir?" cried the old
gentleman, quivering with excitement, though he certainly was convinced by
certain signs and tokens that Ivan Andreyitch could not be a thief. "I ask
you: how did you come here? You break in like a robber...."

"Not a robber, your Excellency. I simply came to the wrong place; I am
really not a robber! It is all because I was jealous. I will tell you all
about it, your Excellency, I will confess it all frankly, as I would to my
own father; for at your venerable age I might take you for a father."

"What do you mean by venerable age?"

"Your Excellency! Perhaps I have offended you? Of course such a young
lady ... and your age ... it is a pleasant sight, your Excellency, it
really is a pleasant sight such a union ... in the prime of life.... But
don't call the servants, for God's sake, don't call the servants ...
servants would only laugh.... I know them ... that is, I don't mean that
I am only acquainted with footmen, I have a footman of my own, your
Excellency, and they are always laughing ... the asses! Your Highness ...
I believe I am not mistaken, I am addressing a prince...."

"No, I am not a prince, sir, I am an independent gentleman.... Please do
not flatter me with your 'Highness.' How did you get here, sir? How did you
get here?"

"Your Highness, that is, your Excellency.... Excuse me, I thought that you
were your Highness. I looked ... I imagined ... it does happen. You are so
like Prince Korotkouhov whom I have had the honour of meeting at my friend
Mr. Pusyrev's.... You see, I am acquainted with princes, too, I have met
princes, too, at the houses of my friends; you cannot take me for what you
take me for. I am not a thief. Your Excellency, don't call the servants;
what will be the good of it if you do call them?"

"But how did you come here?" cried the lady. "Who are you?"

"Yes, who are you?" the husband chimed in. "And, my love, I thought it was
pussy under the bed sneezing. And it was he. Ah, you vagabond! Who are you?
Tell me!"

And the old gentleman stamped on the carpet again.

"I cannot speak, your Excellency, I am waiting till you are finished, I am
enjoying your witty jokes. As regards me, it is an absurd story, your
Excellency; I will tell you all about it. It can all be explained without
more ado, that is, I mean, don't call the servants, your Excellency! Treat
me in a gentlemanly way.... It means nothing that I was under the bed, I
have not sacrificed my dignity by that. It is a most comical story, your
Excellency!" cried Ivan Andreyitch, addressing the lady with a supplicating
air. "You, particularly, your Excellency, will laugh! You behold upon the
scene a jealous husband. You see, I abase myself, I abase myself of my own
free will. I did indeed kill Amishka, but ... my God, I don't know what I
am saying!"

"But how, how did you get here?"

"Under cover of night, your Excellency, under cover of night.... I beg your
pardon! Forgive me, your Excellency! I humbly beg your pardon! I am only an
injured husband, nothing more! Don't imagine, your Excellency, that I am a
lover! I am not a lover! Your wife is virtue itself, if I may venture so to
express myself. She is pure and innocent!"

"What, what? What did you have the audacity to say?" cried the old
gentleman, stamping his foot again. "Are you out of your mind or not? How
dare you talk about my wife?"

"He is a villain, a murderer who has killed Amishka," wailed the lady,
dissolving into tears. "And then he dares!..."

"Your Excellency, your Excellency! I spoke foolishly," cried Ivan
Andreyitch in a fluster. "I was talking foolishly, that was all! Think of
me as out of my mind.... For goodness' sake, think of me as out of my
mind.... I assure you that you will be doing me the greatest favour. I
would offer you my hand, but I do not venture to.... I was not alone, I was
an uncle.... I mean to say that you cannot take me for the lover....
Goodness! I have put my foot in it again.... Do not be offended, your
Excellency," cried Ivan Andreyitch to the lady. "You are a lady, you
understand what love is, it is a delicate feeling.... But what am I saying?
I am talking nonsense again; that is, I mean to say that I am an old
man--that is, a middle-aged man, not an old man; that I cannot be your
lover; that a lover is a Richardson--that is, a Lovelace.... I am talking
nonsense, but you see, your Excellency, that I am a well-educated man and
know something of literature. You are laughing, your Excellency. I am
delighted, delighted that I have _provoked_ your mirth, your Excellency.
Oh, how delighted I am that I have provoked your mirth."

"My goodness, what a funny man!" cried the lady, exploding with laughter.

"Yes, he is funny, and in such a mess," said the old man, delighted that
his wife was laughing. "He cannot be a thief, my love. But how did he come
here?"

"It really is strange, it really is strange, it is like a novel! Why! At
the dead of night, in a great city, a man under the bed. Strange, funny!
Rinaldo-Rinaldini after a fashion. But that is no matter, no matter, your
Excellency. I will tell you all about it.... And I will buy you a new
lapdog, your Excellency.... A wonderful lapdog! Such a long coat, such
short little legs, it can't walk more than a step or two: it runs a little,
gets entangled in its own coat, and tumbles over. One feeds it on nothing
but sugar. I will bring you one, I will certainly bring you one."

"Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!" The lady was rolling from side to side with laughter.
"Oh, dear, I shall have hysterics! Oh, how funny he is!"

"Yes, yes! Ha-ha-ha! Khee-khee-khee! He is funny and he is in a
mess--khee-khee-khee!"

"Your Excellency, your Excellency, I am now perfectly happy. I would offer
you my hand, but I do not venture to, your Excellency. I feel that I have
been in error, but now I am opening my eyes. I am certain my wife is pure
and innocent! I was wrong in suspecting her."

"Wife--his wife!" cried the lady, with tears in her eyes through laughing.

"He married? Impossible! I should never have thought it," said the old
gentleman.

"Your Excellency, my wife--it is all her fault; that is, it is my fault: I
suspected her; I knew that an assignation had been arranged here--here
upstairs; I intercepted a letter, made a mistake about the storey and got
under the bed...."

"He-he-he-he!"

"Ha-ha-ha-ha!"

"Ha-ha-ha-ha!" Ivan Andreyitch began laughing at last. "Oh, how happy I am!
Oh, how wonderful to see that we are all so happy and harmonious! And my
wife is entirely innocent. That must be so, your Excellency!"

"He-he-he! Khee-khee! Do you know, my love, who it was?" said the old man
at last, recovering from his mirth.

"Who? Ha-ha-ha."

"She must be the pretty woman who makes eyes, the one with the dandy. It's
she, I bet that's his wife!"

"No, your Excellency, I am certain it is not she; I am perfectly certain."

"But, my goodness! You are losing time," cried the lady, leaving off
laughing. "Run, go upstairs. Perhaps you will find them."

"Certainly, your Excellency, I will fly. But I shall not find any one, your
Excellency; it is not she, I am certain of it beforehand. She is at home
now. It is all my fault! It is simply my jealousy, nothing else.... What do
you think? Do you suppose that I shall find them there, your Excellency?"

"Ha-ha-ha!"

"He-he-he! Khee-khee!"

"You must go, you must go! And when you come down, come in and tell us!"
cried the lady; "or better still, to-morrow morning. And do bring her too,
I should like to make her acquaintance."

"Good-bye, your Excellency, good-bye! I will certainly bring her, I shall
be very glad for her to make your acquaintance. I am glad and happy that it
was all ended so and has turned out for the best."

"And the lapdog! Don't forget it: be sure to bring the lapdog!"

"I will bring it, your Excellency, I will certainly bring it," responded
Ivan Andreyitch, darting back into the room, for he had already made his
bows and withdrawn. "I will certainly bring it. It is such a pretty one. It
is just as though a confectioner had made it of sweet-meats. And it's such
a funny little thing--gets entangled in its own coat and falls over. It
really is a lapdog! I said to my wife: 'How is it, my love, it keeps
tumbling over?' 'It is such a little thing,' she said. As though it were
made of sugar, of sugar, your Excellency! Good-bye, your Excellency, very,
very glad to make your acquaintance, very glad to make your acquaintance!"

Ivan Andreyitch bowed himself out.

"Hey, sir! Stay, come back," cried the old gentleman, after the retreating
Ivan Andreyitch.

The latter turned back for the third time.

"I still can't find the cat, didn't you meet him when you were under the
bed?"

"No, I didn't, your Excellency. Very glad to make his acquaintance, though,
and I shall look upon it as an honour...."

"He has a cold in his head now, and keeps sneezing and sneezing. He must
have a beating."

"Yes, your Excellency, of course; corrective punishment is essential with
domestic animals."

"What?"

"I say that corrective punishment is necessary, your Excellency, to enforce
obedience in the domestic animals."

"Ah!... Well, good-bye, good-bye, that is all I had to say."

Coming out into the street, Ivan Andreyitch stood for a long time in an
attitude that suggested that he was expecting to have a fit in another
minute. He took off his hat, wiped the cold sweat from his brow, screwed up
his eyes, thought a minute, and set off homewards.

What was his amazement when he learned at home that Glafira Petrovna had
come back from the theatre a long, long time before, that she had
toothache, that she had sent for the doctor, that she had sent for leeches,
and that now she was lying in bed and expecting Ivan Andreyitch.

Ivan Andreyitch slapped himself on the forehead, told the servant to help
him wash and to brush his clothes, and at last ventured to go into his
wife's room.

"Where is it you spend your time? Look what a sight you are! What do you
look like? Where have you been lost all this time? Upon my word, sir; your
wife is dying and you have to be hunted for all over the town. Where have
you been? Surely you have not been tracking me, trying to disturb a
rendezvous I am supposed to have made, though I don't know with whom. For
shame, sir, you are a husband! People will soon be pointing at you in the
street."

"My love ..." responded Ivan Andreyitch.

But at this point he was so overcome with confusion that he had to feel in
his pocket for his handkerchief and to break off in the speech he was
beginning, because he had neither words, thoughts or courage.... What was
his amazement, horror and alarm when with his handkerchief fell out of his
pocket the corpse of Amishka. Ivan Andreyitch had not noticed that when he
had been forced to creep out from under the bed, in an access of despair
and unreasoning terror he had stuffed Amishka into his pocket with a
far-away idea of burying the traces, concealing the evidence of his crime,
and so avoiding the punishment he deserved.

"What's this?" cried his spouse; "a nasty dead dog! Goodness! where has it
come from?... What have you been up to?... Where have you been? Tell me at
once where have you been?"

"My love," answered Ivan Andreyitch, almost as dead as Amishka, "my
love...."

But here we will leave our hero--till another time, for a new and quite
different adventure begins here. Some day we will describe all these
calamities and misfortunes, gentlemen. But you will admit that jealousy is
an unpardonable passion, and what is more, it is a positive misfortune.

THE HEAVENLY CHRISTMAS TREE

I am a novelist, and I suppose I have made up this story. I write "I
suppose," though I know for a fact that I have made it up, but yet I keep
fancying that it must have happened somewhere at some time, that it must
have happened on Christmas Eve in some great town in a time of terrible
frost.

I have a vision of a boy, a little boy, six years old or even younger. This
boy woke up that morning in a cold damp cellar. He was dressed in a sort of
little dressing-gown and was shivering with cold. There was a cloud of
white steam from his breath, and sitting on a box in the corner, he blew
the steam out of his mouth and amused himself in his dullness watching it
float away. But he was terribly hungry. Several times that morning he went
up to the plank bed where his sick mother was lying on a mattress as thin
as a pancake, with some sort of bundle under her head for a pillow. How had
she come here? She must have come with her boy from some other town and
suddenly fallen ill. The landlady who let the "corners" had been taken two
days before to the police station, the lodgers were out and about as the
holiday was so near, and the only one left had been lying for the last
twenty-four hours dead drunk, not having waited for Christmas. In another
corner of the room a wretched old woman of eighty, who had once been a
children's nurse but was now left to die friendless, was moaning and
groaning with rheumatism, scolding and grumbling at the boy so that he was
afraid to go near her corner. He had got a drink of water in the outer
room, but could not find a crust anywhere, and had been on the point of
waking his mother a dozen times. He felt frightened at last in the
darkness: it had long been dusk, but no light was kindled. Touching his
mother's face, he was surprised that she did not move at all, and that she
was as cold as the wall. "It is very cold here," he thought. He stood a
little, unconsciously letting his hands rest on the dead woman's shoulders,
then he breathed on his fingers to warm them, and then quietly fumbling for
his cap on the bed, he went out of the cellar. He would have gone earlier,
but was afraid of the big dog which had been howling all day at the
neighbour's door at the top of the stairs. But the dog was not there now,
and he went out into the street.

Mercy on us, what a town! He had never seen anything like it before. In the
town from which he had come, it was always such black darkness at night.
There was one lamp for the whole street, the little, low-pitched, wooden
houses were closed up with shutters, there was no one to be seen in the
street after dusk, all the people shut themselves up in their houses, and
there was nothing but the howling of packs of dogs, hundreds and thousands
of them barking and howling all night. But there it was so warm and he was
given food, while here--oh, dear, if he only had something to eat! And what
a noise and rattle here, what light and what people, horses and carriages,
and what a frost! The frozen steam hung in clouds over the horses, over
their warmly breathing mouths; their hoofs clanged against the stones
through the powdery snow, and every one pushed so, and--oh, dear, how he
longed for some morsel to eat, and how wretched he suddenly felt. A
policeman walked by and turned away to avoid seeing the boy.

Here was another street--oh, what a wide one, here he would be run over for
certain; how everyone was shouting, racing and driving along, and the
light, the light! And what was this? A huge glass window, and through the
window a tree reaching up to the ceiling; it was a fir tree, and on it were
ever so many lights, gold papers and apples and little dolls and horses;
and there were children clean and dressed in their best running about the
room, laughing and playing and eating and drinking something. And then a
little girl began dancing with one of the boys, what a pretty little girl!
And he could hear the music through the window. The boy looked and wondered
and laughed, though his toes were aching with the cold and his fingers were
red and stiff so that it hurt him to move them. And all at once the boy
remembered how his toes and fingers hurt him, and began crying, and ran on;
and again through another window-pane he saw another Christmas tree, and on
a table cakes of all sorts--almond cakes, red cakes and yellow cakes, and
three grand young ladies were sitting there, and they gave the cakes to any
one who went up to them, and the door kept opening, lots of gentlemen and
ladies went in from the street. The boy crept up, suddenly opened the door
and went in. Oh, how they shouted at him and waved him back! One lady went
up to him hurriedly and slipped a kopeck into his hand, and with her own
hands opened the door into the street for him! How frightened he was. And
the kopeck rolled away and clinked upon the steps; he could not bend his
red fingers to hold it tight. The boy ran away and went on, where he did
not know. He was ready to cry again but he was afraid, and ran on and on
and blew his fingers. And he was miserable because he felt suddenly so
lonely and terrified, and all at once, mercy on us! What was this again?
People were standing in a crowd admiring. Behind a glass window there were
three little dolls, dressed in red and green dresses, and exactly, exactly
as though they were alive. One was a little old man sitting and playing a
big violin, the two others were standing close by and playing little
violins and nodding in time, and looking at one another, and their lips
moved, they were speaking, actually speaking, only one couldn't hear
through the glass. And at first the boy thought they were alive, and when
he grasped that they were dolls he laughed. He had never seen such dolls
before, and had no idea there were such dolls! And he wanted to cry, but
he felt amused, amused by the dolls. All at once he fancied that some one
caught at his smock behind: a wicked big boy was standing beside him and
suddenly hit him on the head, snatched off his cap and tripped him up. The
boy fell down on the ground, at once there was a shout, he was numb with
fright, he jumped up and ran away. He ran, and not knowing where he was
going, ran in at the gate of some one's courtyard, and sat down behind a
stack of wood: "They won't find me here, besides it's dark!"

He sat huddled up and was breathless from fright, and all at once, quite
suddenly, he felt so happy: his hands and feet suddenly left off aching and
grew so warm, as warm as though he were on a stove; then he shivered all
over, then he gave a start, why, he must have been asleep. How nice to have
a sleep here! "I'll sit here a little and go and look at the dolls again,"
said the boy, and smiled thinking of them. "Just as though they were
alive!..." And suddenly he heard his mother singing over him. "Mammy, I am
asleep; how nice it is to sleep here!"

"Come to my Christmas tree, little one," a soft voice suddenly whispered
over his head.

He thought that this was still his mother, but no, it was not she. Who it
was calling him, he could not see, but some one bent over and embraced him
in the darkness; and he stretched out his hands to him, and ... and all at
once--oh, what a bright light! Oh, what a Christmas tree! And yet it was
not a fir tree, he had never seen a tree like that! Where was he now?
Everything was bright and shining, and all round him were dolls; but no,
they were not dolls, they were little boys and girls, only so bright and
shining. They all came flying round him, they all kissed him, took him and
carried him along with them, and he was flying himself, and he saw that his
mother was looking at him and laughing joyfully. "Mammy, Mammy; oh, how
nice it is here, Mammy!" And again he kissed the children and wanted to
tell them at once of those dolls in the shop window. "Who are you, boys?
Who are you, girls?" he asked, laughing and admiring them.

"This is Christ's Christmas tree," they answered. "Christ always has a
Christmas tree on this day, for the little children who have no tree of
their own...." And he found out that all these little boys and girls were
children just like himself; that some had been frozen in the baskets in
which they had as babies been laid on the doorsteps of well-to-do
Petersburg people, others had been boarded out with Finnish women by the
Foundling and had been suffocated, others had died at their starved
mother's breasts (in the Samara famine), others had died in the third-class
railway carriages from the foul air; and yet they were all here, they were
all like angels about Christ, and He was in the midst of them and held out
His hands to them and blessed them and their sinful mothers.... And the
mothers of these children stood on one side weeping; each one knew her boy
or girl, and the children flew up to them and kissed them and wiped away
their tears with their little hands, and begged them not to weep because
they were so happy.

And down below in the morning the porter found the little dead body of the
frozen child on the woodstack; they sought out his mother too.... She had
died before him. They met before the Lord God in heaven.

Why have I made up such a story, so out of keeping with an ordinary diary,
and a writer's above all? And I promised two stories dealing with real
events! But that is just it, I keep fancying that all this may have
happened really--that is, what took place in the cellar and on the
woodstack; but as for Christ's Christmas tree, I cannot tell you whether
that could have happened or not.

THE PEASANT MAREY

It was the second day in Easter week. The air was warm, the sky was blue,
the sun was high, warm, bright, but my soul was very gloomy. I sauntered
behind the prison barracks. I stared at the palings of the stout prison
fence, counting the movers; but I had no inclination to count them, though
it was my habit to do so. This was the second day of the "holidays" in the
prison; the convicts were not taken out to work, there were numbers of men
drunk, loud abuse and quarrelling was springing up continually in every
corner. There were hideous, disgusting songs and card-parties installed
beside the platform-beds. Several of the convicts who had been sentenced by
their comrades, for special violence, to be beaten till they were half
dead, were lying on the platform-bed, covered with sheepskins till they
should recover and come to themselves again; knives had already been drawn
several times. For these two days of holiday all this had been torturing me
till it made me ill. And indeed I could never endure without repulsion the
noise and disorder of drunken people, and especially in this place. On
these days even the prison officials did not look into the prison, made no
searches, did not look for vodka, understanding that they must allow even
these outcasts to enjoy themselves once a year, and that things would be
even worse if they did not. At last a sudden fury flamed up in my heart. A
political prisoner called M. met me; he looked at me gloomily, his eyes
flashed and his lips quivered. "_Je haïs ces brigands!_" he hissed to me
through his teeth, and walked on. I returned to the prison ward, though
only a quarter of an hour before I had rushed out of it, as though I were
crazy, when six stalwart fellows had all together flung themselves upon
the drunken Tatar Gazin to suppress him and had begun beating him; they
beat him stupidly, a camel might have been killed by such blows, but they
knew that this Hercules was not easy to kill, and so they beat him without
uneasiness. Now on returning I noticed on the bed in the furthest corner of
the room Gazin lying unconscious, almost without sign of life. He lay
covered with a sheepskin, and every one walked round him, without speaking;
though they confidently hoped that he would come to himself next morning,
yet if luck was against him, maybe from a beating like that, the man would
die. I made my way to my own place opposite the window with the iron
grating, and lay on my back with my hands behind my head and my eyes shut.
I liked to lie like that; a sleeping man is not molested, and meanwhile one
can dream and think. But I could not dream, my heart was beating uneasily,
and M.'s words, "_Je haïs ces brigands!_" were echoing in my ears. But why
describe my impressions; I sometimes dream even now of those times at
night, and I have no dreams more agonising. Perhaps it will be noticed that
even to this day I have scarcely once spoken in print of my life in prison.
_The House of the Dead_ I wrote fifteen years ago in the character of an
imaginary person, a criminal who had killed his wife. I may add by the way
that since then, very many persons have supposed, and even now maintain,
that I was sent to penal servitude for the murder of my wife.

Gradually I sank into forgetfulness and by degrees was lost in memories.
During the whole course of my four years in prison I was continually
recalling all my past, and seemed to live over again the whole of my life
in recollection. These memories rose up of themselves, it was not often
that of my own will I summoned them. It would begin from some point, some
little thing, at times unnoticed, and then by degrees there would rise up a
complete picture, some vivid and complete impression. I used to analyse
these impressions, give new features to what had happened long ago, and
best of all, I used to correct it, correct it continually, that was my
great amusement. On this occasion, I suddenly for some reason remembered an
unnoticed moment in my early childhood when I was only nine years old--a
moment which I should have thought I had utterly forgotten; but at that
time I was particularly fond of memories of my early childhood. I
remembered the month of August in our country house: a dry bright day but
rather cold and windy; summer was waning and soon we should have to go to
Moscow to be bored all the winter over French lessons, and I was so sorry
to leave the country. I walked past the threshing-floor and, going down the
ravine, I went up to the dense thicket of bushes that covered the further
side of the ravine as far as the copse. And I plunged right into the midst
of the bushes, and heard a peasant ploughing alone on the clearing about
thirty paces away. I knew that he was ploughing up the steep hill and the
horse was moving with effort, and from time to time the peasant's call
"come up!" floated upwards to me. I knew almost all our peasants, but I did
not know which it was ploughing now, and I did not care who it was, I was
absorbed in my own affairs. I was busy, too; I was breaking off switches
from the nut trees to whip the frogs with. Nut sticks make such fine whips,
but they do not last; while birch twigs are just the opposite. I was
interested, too, in beetles and other insects; I used to collect them, some
were very ornamental. I was very fond, too, of the little nimble red and
yellow lizards with black spots on them, but I was afraid of snakes.
Snakes, however, were much more rare than lizards. There were not many
mushrooms there. To get mushrooms one had to go to the birch wood, and I
was about to set off there. And there was nothing in the world that I loved
so much as the wood with its mushrooms and wild berries, with its beetles
and its birds, its hedgehogs and squirrels, with its damp smell of dead
leaves which I loved so much, and even as I write I smell the fragrance of
our birch wood: these impressions will remain for my whole life. Suddenly
in the midst of the profound stillness I heard a clear and distinct shout,
"Wolf!" I shrieked and, beside myself with terror, calling out at the top
of my voice, ran out into the clearing and straight to the peasant who was
ploughing.

It was our peasant Marey. I don't know if there is such a name, but every
one called him Marey--a thick-set, rather well-grown peasant of fifty, with
a good many grey hairs in his dark brown, spreading beard. I knew him, but
had scarcely ever happened to speak to him till then. He stopped his horse
on hearing my cry, and when, breathless, I caught with one hand at his
plough and with the other at his sleeve, he saw how frightened I was.

"There is a wolf!" I cried, panting.

He flung up his head, and could not help looking round for an instant,
almost believing me.

"Where is the wolf?"

"A shout ... some one shouted: 'wolf' ..." I faltered out.

"Nonsense, nonsense! A wolf? Why, it was your fancy! How could there be a
wolf?" he muttered, reassuring me. But I was trembling all over, and still
kept tight hold of his smock frock, and I must have been quite pale. He
looked at me with an uneasy smile, evidently anxious and troubled over me.

"Why, you have had a fright, _aïe, aïe_!" He shook his head. "There,
dear.... Come, little one, _aïe_!"

He stretched out his hand, and all at once stroked my cheek.

"Come, come, there; Christ be with you! Cross yourself!"

But I did not cross myself. The corners of my mouth were twitching, and I
think that struck him particularly. He put out his thick, black-nailed,
earth-stained finger and softly touched my twitching lips.

"_Aïe_, there, there," he said to me with a slow, almost motherly smile.
"Dear, dear, what is the matter? There; come, come!"

I grasped at last that there was no wolf, and that the shout that I had
heard was my fancy. Yet that shout had been so clear and distinct, but such
shouts (not only about wolves) I had imagined once or twice before, and I
was aware of that. (These hallucinations passed away later as I grew
older.)

"Well, I will go then," I said, looking at him timidly and inquiringly.

"Well, do, and I'll keep watch on you as you go. I won't let the wolf get
at you," he added, still smiling at me with the same motherly expression.
"Well, Christ be with you! Come, run along then," and he made the sign of
the cross over me and then over himself. I walked away, looking back almost
at every tenth step. Marey stood still with his mare as I walked away, and
looked after me and nodded to me every time I looked round. I must own I
felt a little ashamed at having let him see me so frightened, but I was
still very much afraid of the wolf as I walked away, until I reached the
first barn half-way up the slope of the ravine; there my fright vanished
completely, and all at once our yard-dog Voltchok flew to meet me. With
Voltchok I felt quite safe, and I turned round to Marey for the last time;
I could not see his face distinctly, but I felt that he was still nodding
and smiling affectionately to me. I waved to him; he waved back to me and
started his little mare. "Come up!" I heard his call in the distance again,
and the little mare pulled at the plough again.

All this I recalled all at once, I don't know why, but with extraordinary
minuteness of detail. I suddenly roused myself and sat up on the
platform-bed, and, I remember, found myself still smiling quietly at my
memories. I brooded over them for another minute.

When I got home that day I told no one of my "adventure" with Marey. And
indeed it was hardly an adventure. And in fact I soon forgot Marey. When I
met him now and then afterwards, I never even spoke to him about the wolf
or anything else; and all at once now, twenty years afterwards in Siberia,
I remembered this meeting with such distinctness to the smallest detail. So
it must have lain hidden in my soul, though I knew nothing of it, and rose
suddenly to my memory when it was wanted; I remembered the soft motherly
smile of the poor serf, the way he signed me with the cross and shook his
head. "There, there, you have had a fright, little one!" And I remembered
particularly the thick earth-stained finger with which he softly and with
timid tenderness touched my quivering lips. Of course any one would have
reassured a child, but something quite different seemed to have happened in
that solitary meeting; and if I had been his own son, he could not have
looked at me with eyes shining with greater love. And what made him like
that? He was our serf and I was his little master, after all. No one would
know that he had been kind to me and reward him for it. Was he, perhaps,
very fond of little children? Some people are. It was a solitary meeting in
the deserted fields, and only God, perhaps, may have seen from above with
what deep and humane civilised feeling, and with what delicate, almost
feminine tenderness, the heart of a coarse, brutally ignorant Russian serf,
who had as yet no expectation, no idea even of his freedom, may be filled.
Was not this, perhaps, what Konstantin Aksakov meant when he spoke of the
high degree of culture of our peasantry?

And when I got down off the bed and looked around me, I remember I suddenly
felt that I could look at these unhappy creatures with quite different
eyes, and that suddenly by some miracle all hatred and anger had vanished
utterly from my heart. I walked about, looking into the faces that I met.
That shaven peasant, branded on his face as a criminal, bawling his
hoarse, drunken song, may be that very Marey; I cannot look into his heart.

I met M. again that evening. Poor fellow! he could have no memories of
Russian peasants, and no other view of these people but: "_Je haïs ces
brigands!_" Yes, the Polish prisoners had more to bear than I.

THE CROCODILE

AN EXTRAORDINARY INCIDENT

     _A true story of how a gentleman of a certain age and of
     respectable appearance was swallowed alive by the crocodile
     in the Arcade, and of the consequences that followed._

                                     Ohé Lambert! Où est Lambert?
                                        As tu vu Lambert?

I

On the thirteenth of January of this present year, 1865, at half-past
twelve in the day, Elena Ivanovna, the wife of my cultured friend Ivan
Matveitch, who is a colleague in the same department, and may be said to be
a distant relation of mine, too, expressed the desire to see the crocodile
now on view at a fixed charge in the Arcade. As Ivan Matveitch had already
in his pocket his ticket for a tour abroad (not so much for the sake of his
health as for the improvement of his mind), and was consequently free from
his official duties and had nothing whatever to do that morning, he offered
no objection to his wife's irresistible fancy, but was positively aflame
with curiosity himself.

"A capital idea!" he said, with the utmost satisfaction. "We'll have a look
at the crocodile! On the eve of visiting Europe it is as well to acquaint
ourselves on the spot with its indigenous inhabitants." And with these
words, taking his wife's arm, he set off with her at once for the Arcade. I
joined them, as I usually do, being an intimate friend of the family. I
have never seen Ivan Matveitch in a more agreeable frame of mind than he
was on that memorable morning--how true it is that we know not beforehand
the fate that awaits us! On entering the Arcade he was at once full of
admiration for the splendours of the building, and when we reached the shop
in which the monster lately arrived in Petersburg was being exhibited, he
volunteered to pay the quarter-rouble for me to the crocodile owner--a
thing which had never happened before. Walking into a little room, we
observed that besides the crocodile there were in it parrots of the species
known as cockatoo, and also a group of monkeys in a special case in a
recess. Near the entrance, along the left wall stood a big tin tank that
looked like a bath covered with a thin iron grating, filled with water to
the depth of two inches. In this shallow pool was kept a huge crocodile,
which lay like a log absolutely motionless and apparently deprived of all
its faculties by our damp climate, so inhospitable to foreign visitors.
This monster at first aroused no special interest in any one of us.

"So this is the crocodile!" said Elena Ivanovna, with a pathetic cadence of
regret. "Why, I thought it was ... something different."

Most probably she thought it was made of diamonds. The owner of the
crocodile, a German, came out and looked at us with an air of extraordinary
pride.

"He has a right to be," Ivan Matveitch whispered to me, "he knows he is the
only man in Russia exhibiting a crocodile."

This quite nonsensical observation I ascribe also to the extremely
good-humoured mood which had overtaken Ivan Matveitch, who was on other
occasions of rather envious disposition.

"I fancy your crocodile is not alive," said Elena Ivanovna, piqued by the
irresponsive stolidity of the proprietor, and addressing him with a
charming smile in order to soften his churlishness--a manoeuvre so
typically feminine.

"Oh, no, madam," the latter replied in broken Russian; and instantly
moving the grating half off the tank, he poked the monster's head with a
stick.

Then the treacherous monster, to show that it was alive, faintly stirred
its paws and tail, raised its snout and emitted something like a prolonged
snuffle.

"Come, don't be cross, Karlchen," said the German caressingly, gratified in
his vanity.

"How horrid that crocodile is! I am really frightened," Elena Ivanovna
twittered, still more coquettishly. "I know I shall dream of him now."

"But he won't bite you if you do dream of him," the German retorted
gallantly, and was the first to laugh at his own jest, but none of us
responded.

"Come, Semyon Semyonitch," said Elena Ivanovna, addressing me exclusively,
"let us go and look at the monkeys. I am awfully fond of monkeys; they are
such darlings ... and the crocodile is horrid."

"Oh, don't be afraid, my dear!" Ivan Matveitch called after us, gallantly
displaying his manly courage to his wife. "This drowsy denison of the
realms of the Pharaohs will do us no harm." And he remained by the tank.
What is more, he took his glove and began tickling the crocodile's nose
with it, wishing, as he said afterwards, to induce him to snort. The
proprietor showed his politeness to a lady by following Elena Ivanovna to
the case of monkeys.

So everything was going well, and nothing could have been foreseen. Elena
Ivanovna was quite skittish in her raptures over the monkeys, and seemed
completely taken up with them. With shrieks of delight she was continually
turning to me, as though determined not to notice the proprietor, and kept
gushing with laughter at the resemblance she detected between these monkeys
and her intimate friends and acquaintances. I, too, was amused, for the
resemblance was unmistakable. The German did not know whether to laugh or
not, and so at last was reduced to frowning. And it was at that moment
that a terrible, I may say unnatural, scream set the room vibrating. Not
knowing what to think, for the first moment I stood still, numb with
horror, but noticing that Elena Ivanovna was screaming too, I quickly
turned round--and what did I behold! I saw--oh, heavens!--I saw the
luckless Ivan Matveitch in the terrible jaws of the crocodile, held by them
round the waist, lifted horizontally in the air and desperately kicking.
Then--one moment, and no trace remained of him. But I must describe it in
detail, for I stood all the while motionless, and had time to watch the
whole process taking place before me with an attention and interest such as
I never remember to have felt before. "What," I thought at that critical
moment, "what if all that had happened to me instead of to Ivan
Matveitch--how unpleasant it would have been for me!"

But to return to my story. The crocodile began by turning the unhappy Ivan
Matveitch in his terrible jaws so that he could swallow his legs first;
then bringing up Ivan Matveitch, who kept trying to jump out and clutching
at the sides of the tank, sucked him down again as far as his waist. Then
bringing him up again, gulped him down, and so again and again. In this way
Ivan Matveitch was visibly disappearing before our eyes. At last, with a
final gulp, the crocodile swallowed my cultured friend entirely, this time
leaving no trace of him. From the outside of the crocodile we could see the
protuberances of Ivan Matveitch's figure as he passed down the inside of
the monster. I was on the point of screaming again when destiny played
another treacherous trick upon us. The crocodile made a tremendous effort,
probably oppressed by the magnitude of the object he had swallowed, once
more opened his terrible jaws, and with a final hiccup he suddenly let the
head of Ivan Matveitch pop out for a second, with an expression of despair
on his face. In that brief instant the spectacles dropped off his nose to
the bottom of the tank. It seemed as though that despairing countenance
had only popped out to cast one last look on the objects around it, to take
its last farewell of all earthly pleasures. But it had not time to carry
out its intention; the crocodile made another effort, gave a gulp and
instantly it vanished again--this time for ever. This appearance and
disappearance of a still living human head was so horrible, but at the
same--either from its rapidity and unexpectedness or from the dropping of
the spectacles--there was something so comic about it that I suddenly quite
unexpectedly exploded with laughter. But pulling myself together and
realising that to laugh at such a moment was not the thing for an old
family friend, I turned at once to Elena Ivanovna and said with a
sympathetic air:

"Now it's all over with our friend Ivan Matveitch!"

I cannot even attempt to describe how violent was the agitation of Elena
Ivanovna during the whole process. After the first scream she seemed rooted
to the spot, and stared at the catastrophe with apparent indifference,
though her eyes looked as though they were starting out of her head; then
she suddenly went off into a heart-rending wail, but I seized her hands. At
this instant the proprietor, too, who had at first been also petrified by
horror, suddenly clasped his hands and cried, gazing upwards:

"Oh my crocodile! _Oh mein allerliebster Karlchen! Mutter, Mutter,
Mutter!_"

A door at the rear of the room opened at this cry, and the _Mutter_, a
rosy-cheeked, elderly but dishevelled woman in a cap made her appearance,
and rushed with a shriek to her German.

A perfect Bedlam followed. Elena Ivanovna kept shrieking out the same
phrase, as though in a frenzy, "Flay him! flay him!" apparently entreating
them--probably in a moment of oblivion--to flay somebody for something. The
proprietor and _Mutter_ took no notice whatever of either of us; they were
both bellowing like calves over the crocodile.

"He did for himself! He will burst himself at once, for he did swallow a
_ganz_ official!" cried the proprietor.

"_Unser Karlchen, unser allerliebster Karlchen wird sterben_," howled his
wife.

"We are bereaved and without bread!" chimed in the proprietor.

"Flay him! flay him! flay him!" clamoured Elena Ivanovna, clutching at the
German's coat.

"He did tease the crocodile. For what did your man tease the crocodile?"
cried the German, pulling away from her. "You will if _Karlchen wird_
burst, therefore pay, _das war mein Sohn, das war mein einziger Sohn_."

I must own I was intensely indignant at the sight of such egoism in the
German and the cold-heartedness of his dishevelled _Mutter_; at the same
time Elena Ivanovna's reiterated shriek of "Flay him! flay him!" troubled
me even more and absorbed at last my whole attention, positively alarming
me. I may as well say straight off that I entirely misunderstood this
strange exclamation: it seemed to me that Elena Ivanovna had for the moment
taken leave of her senses, but nevertheless wishing to avenge the loss of
her beloved Ivan Matveitch, was demanding by way of compensation that the
crocodile should be severely thrashed, while she was meaning something
quite different. Looking round at the door, not without embarrassment, I
began to entreat Elena Ivanovna to calm herself, and above all not to use
the shocking word "flay." For such a reactionary desire here, in the midst
of the Arcade and of the most cultured society, not two paces from the hall
where at this very minute Mr. Lavrov was perhaps delivering a public
lecture, was not only impossible but unthinkable, and might at any moment
bring upon us the hisses of culture and the caricatures of Mr. Stepanov. To
my horror I was immediately proved to be correct in my alarmed suspicions:
the curtain that divided the crocodile room from the little entry where the
quarter-roubles were taken suddenly parted, and in the opening there
appeared a figure with moustaches and beard, carrying a cap, with the upper
part of its body bent a long way forward, though the feet were scrupulously
held beyond the threshold of the crocodile room in order to avoid the
necessity of paying the entrance money.

"Such a reactionary desire, madam," said the stranger, trying to avoid
falling over in our direction and to remain standing outside the room,
"does no credit to your development, and is conditioned by lack of
phosphorus in your brain. You will be promptly held up to shame in the
_Chronicle of Progress_ and in our satirical prints...."

But he could not complete his remarks; the proprietor coming to himself,
and seeing with horror that a man was talking in the crocodile room without
having paid entrance money, rushed furiously at the progressive stranger
and turned him out with a punch from each fist. For a moment both vanished
from our sight behind a curtain, and only then I grasped that the whole
uproar was about nothing. Elena Ivanovna turned out quite innocent; she
had, as I have mentioned already, no idea whatever of subjecting the
crocodile to a degrading corporal punishment, and had simply expressed the
desire that he should be opened and her husband released from his interior.

"What! You wish that my crocodile be perished!" the proprietor yelled,
running in again. "No! let your husband be perished first, before my
crocodile!... _Mein Vater_ showed crocodile, _mein Grossvater_ showed
crocodile, _mein Sohn_ will show crocodile, and I will show crocodile! All
will show crocodile! I am known to _ganz Europa_, and you are not known to
_ganz Europa_, and you must pay me a _strafe_!"

"_Ja, ja_," put in the vindictive German woman, "we shall not let you go.
_Strafe_, since Karlchen is burst!"

"And, indeed, it's useless to flay the creature," I added calmly, anxious
to get Elena Ivanovna away home as quickly as possible, "as our dear Ivan
Matveitch is by now probably soaring somewhere in the empyrean."

"My dear"--we suddenly heard, to our intense amazement, the voice of Ivan
Matveitch--"my dear, my advice is to apply direct to the superintendent's
office, as without the assistance of the police the German will never be
made to see reason."

These words, uttered with firmness and aplomb, and expressing an
exceptional presence of mind, for the first minute so astounded us that we
could not believe our ears. But, of course, we ran at once to the
crocodile's tank, and with equal reverence and incredulity listened to the
unhappy captive. His voice was muffled, thin and even squeaky, as though it
came from a considerable distance. It reminded one of a jocose person who,
covering his mouth with a pillow, shouts from an adjoining room, trying to
mimic the sound of two peasants calling to one another in a deserted plain
or across a wide ravine--a performance to which I once had the pleasure of
listening in a friend's house at Christmas.

"Ivan Matveitch, my dear, and so you are alive!" faltered Elena Ivanovna.

"Alive and well," answered Ivan Matveitch, "and, thanks to the Almighty,
swallowed without any damage whatever. I am only uneasy as to the view my
superiors may take of the incident; for after getting a permit to go abroad
I've got into a crocodile, which seems anything but clever."

"But, my dear, don't trouble your head about being clever; first of all we
must somehow excavate you from where you are," Elena Ivanovna interrupted.

"Excavate!" cried the proprietor. "I will not let my crocodile be
excavated. Now the _publicum_ will come many more, and I will _fünfzig_
kopecks ask and Karlchen will cease to burst."

"_Gott sei dank!_" put in his wife.

"They are right," Ivan Matveitch observed tranquilly; "the principles of
economics before everything."

"My dear! I will fly at once to the authorities and lodge a complaint, for
I feel that we cannot settle this mess by ourselves."

"I think so too," observed Ivan Matveitch; "but in our age of industrial
crisis it is not easy to rip open the belly of a crocodile without economic
compensation, and meanwhile the inevitable question presents itself: What
will the German take for his crocodile? And with it another: How will it be
paid? For, as you know, I have no means...."

"Perhaps out of your salary...." I observed timidly, but the proprietor
interrupted me at once.

"I will not the crocodile sell; I will for three thousand the crocodile
sell! I will for four thousand the crocodile sell! Now the _publicum_ will
come very many. I will for five thousand the crocodile sell!"

In fact he gave himself insufferable airs. Covetousness and a revolting
greed gleamed joyfully in his eyes.

"I am going!" I cried indignantly.

"And I! I too! I shall go to Andrey Osipitch himself. I will soften him
with my tears," whined Elena Ivanovna.

"Don't do that, my dear," Ivan Matveitch hastened to interpose. He had long
been jealous of Andrey Osipitch on his wife's account, and he knew she
would enjoy going to weep before a gentleman of refinement, for tears
suited her. "And I don't advise you to do so either, my friend," he added,
addressing me. "It's no good plunging headlong in that slap-dash way;
there's no knowing what it may lead to. You had much better go to-day to
Timofey Semyonitch, as though to pay an ordinary visit; he is an
old-fashioned and by no means brilliant man, but he is trustworthy, and
what matters most of all, he is straightforward. Give him my greetings and
describe the circumstances of the case. And since I owe him seven roubles
over our last game of cards, take the opportunity to pay him the money;
that will soften the stern old man. In any case his advice may serve as a
guide for us. And meanwhile take Elena Ivanovna home.... Calm yourself, my
dear," he continued, addressing her. "I am weary of these outcries and
feminine squabblings, and should like a nap. It's soft and warm in here,
though I have hardly had time to look round in this unexpected haven."

"Look round! Why, is it light in there?" cried Elena Ivanovna in a tone of
relief.

"I am surrounded by impenetrable night," answered the poor captive; "but I
can feel and, so to speak, have a look round with my hands.... Good-bye;
set your mind at rest and don't deny yourself recreation and diversion.
Till to-morrow! And you, Semyon Semyonitch, come to me in the evening, and
as you are absent-minded and may forget it, tie a knot in your
handkerchief."

I confess I was glad to get away, for I was overtired and somewhat bored.
Hastening to offer my arm to the disconsolate Elena Ivanovna, whose charms
were only enhanced by her agitation, I hurriedly led her out of the
crocodile room.

"The charge will be another quarter-rouble in the evening," the proprietor
called after us.

"Oh, dear, how greedy they are!" said Elena Ivanovna, looking at herself in
every mirror on the walls of the Arcade, and evidently aware that she was
looking prettier than usual.

"The principles of economics," I answered with some emotion, proud that
passers-by should see the lady on my arm.

"The principles of economics," she drawled in a touching little voice. "I
did not in the least understand what Ivan Matveitch said about those horrid
economics just now."

"I will explain to you," I answered, and began at once telling her of the
beneficial effects of the introduction of foreign capital into our country,
upon which I had read an article in the _Petersburg News_ and the _Voice_
that morning.

"How strange it is," she interrupted, after listening for some time. "But
do leave off, you horrid man. What nonsense you are talking.... Tell me, do
I look purple?"

"You look perfect, and not purple!" I observed, seizing the opportunity to
pay her a compliment.

"Naughty man!" she said complacently. "Poor Ivan Matveitch," she added a
minute later, putting her little head on one side coquettishly. "I am
really sorry for him. Oh, dear!" she cried suddenly, "how is he going to
have his dinner ... and ... and ... what will he do ... if he wants
anything?"

"An unforeseen question," I answered, perplexed in my turn. To tell the
truth, it had not entered my head, so much more practical are women than we
men in the solution of the problems of daily life!

"Poor dear! how could he have got into such a mess ... nothing to amuse
him, and in the dark.... How vexing it is that I have no photograph of
him.... And so now I am a sort of widow," she added, with a seductive
smile, evidently interested in her new position. "Hm!... I am sorry for
him, though."

It was, in short, the expression of the very natural and intelligible grief
of a young and interesting wife for the loss of her husband. I took her
home at last, soothed her, and after dining with her and drinking a cup of
aromatic coffee, set off at six o'clock to Timofey Semyonitch, calculating
that at that hour all married people of settled habits would be sitting or
lying down at home.

Having written this first chapter in a style appropriate to the incident
recorded, I intend to proceed in a language more natural though less
elevated, and I beg to forewarn the reader of the fact.

II

The venerable Timofey Semyonitch met me rather nervously, as though
somewhat embarrassed. He led me to his tiny study and shut the door
carefully, "that the children may not hinder us," he added with evident
uneasiness. There he made me sit down on a chair by the writing-table, sat
down himself in an easy chair, wrapped round him the skirts of his old
wadded dressing-gown, and assumed an official and even severe air, in
readiness for anything, though he was not my chief nor Ivan Matveitch's,
and had hitherto been reckoned as a colleague and even a friend.

"First of all," he said, "take note that I am not a person in authority,
but just such a subordinate official as you and Ivan Matveitch.... I have
nothing to do with it, and do not intend to mix myself up in the affair."

I was surprised to find that he apparently knew all about it already. In
spite of that I told him the whole story over in detail. I spoke with
positive excitement, for I was at that moment fulfilling the obligations of
a true friend. He listened without special surprise, but with evident signs
of suspicion.

"Only fancy," he said, "I always believed that this would be sure to happen
to him."

"Why, Timofey Semyonitch? It is a very unusual incident in itself...."

"I admit it. But Ivan Matveitch's whole career in the service was leading
up to this end. He was flighty--conceited indeed. It was always 'progress'
and ideas of all sorts, and this is what progress brings people to!"

"But this is a most unusual incident and cannot possibly serve as a general
rule for all progressives."

"Yes, indeed it can. You see, it's the effect of over-education, I assure
you. For over-education leads people to poke their noses into all sorts of
places, especially where they are not invited. Though perhaps you know
best," he added, as though offended. "I am an old man and not of much
education. I began as a soldier's son, and this year has been the jubilee
of my service."

"Oh, no, Timofey Semyonitch, not at all. On the contrary, Ivan Matveitch is
eager for your advice; he is eager for your guidance. He implores it, so to
say, with tears."

"So to say, with tears! Hm! Those are crocodile's tears and one cannot
quite believe in them. Tell me, what possessed him to want to go abroad?
And how could he afford to go? Why, he has no private means!"

"He had saved the money from his last bonus," I answered plaintively. "He
only wanted to go for three months--to Switzerland ... to the land of
William Tell."

"William Tell? Hm!"

"He wanted to meet the spring at Naples, to see the museums, the customs,
the animals...."

"Hm! The animals! I think it was simply from pride. What animals? Animals,
indeed! Haven't we animals enough? We have museums, menageries, camels.
There are bears quite close to Petersburg! And here he's got inside a
crocodile himself...."

"Oh, come, Timofey Semyonitch! The man is in trouble, the man appeals to
you as to a friend, as to an older relation, craves for advice--and you
reproach him. Have pity at least on the unfortunate Elena Ivanovna!"

"You are speaking of his wife? A charming little lady," said Timofey
Semyonitch, visibly softening and taking a pinch of snuff with relish.
"Particularly prepossessing. And so plump, and always putting her pretty
little head on one side.... Very agreeable. Andrey Osipitch was speaking of
her only the other day."

"Speaking of her?"

"Yes, and in very flattering terms. Such a bust, he said, such eyes, such
hair.... A sugar-plum, he said, not a lady--and then he laughed. He is
still a young man, of course." Timofey Semyonitch blew his nose with a loud
noise. "And yet, young though he is, what a career he is making for
himself."

"That's quite a different thing, Timofey Semyonitch."

"Of course, of course."

"Well, what do you say then, Timofey Semyonitch?"

"Why, what can I do?"

"Give advice, guidance, as a man of experience, a relative! What are we to
do? What steps are we to take? Go to the authorities and ..."

"To the authorities? Certainly not," Timofey Semyonitch replied hurriedly.
"If you ask my advice, you had better, above all, hush the matter up and
act, so to speak, as a private person. It is a suspicious incident, quite
unheard of. Unheard of, above all; there is no precedent for it, and it is
far from creditable.... And so discretion above all.... Let him lie there a
bit. We must wait and see...."

"But how can we wait and see, Timofey Semyonitch? What if he is stifled
there?"

"Why should he be? I think you told me that he made himself fairly
comfortable there?"

I told him the whole story over again. Timofey Semyonitch pondered.

"Hm!" he said, twisting his snuff-box in his hands. "To my mind it's really
a good thing he should lie there a bit, instead of going abroad. Let him
reflect at his leisure. Of course he mustn't be stifled, and so he must
take measures to preserve his health, avoiding a cough, for instance, and
so on.... And as for the German, it's my personal opinion he is within his
rights, and even more so than the other side, because it was the other
party who got into _his_ crocodile without asking permission, and not _he_
who got into Ivan Matveitch's crocodile without asking permission, though,
so far as I recollect, the latter has no crocodile. And a crocodile is
private property, and so it is impossible to slit him open without
compensation."

"For the saving of human life, Timofey Semyonitch."

"Oh, well, that's a matter for the police. You must go to them."

"But Ivan Matveitch may be needed in the department. He may be asked for."

"Ivan Matveitch needed? Ha-ha! Besides, he is on leave, so that we may
ignore him--let him inspect the countries of Europe! It will be a different
matter if he doesn't turn up when his leave is over. Then we shall ask for
him and make inquiries."

"Three months! Timofey Semyonitch, for pity's sake!"

"It's his own fault. Nobody thrust him there. At this rate we should have
to get a nurse to look after him at government expense, and that is not
allowed for in the regulations. But the chief point is that the crocodile
is private property, so that the principles of economics apply in this
question. And the principles of economics are paramount. Only the other
evening, at Luka Andreitch's, Ignaty Prokofyitch was saying so. Do you know
Ignaty Prokofyitch? A capitalist, in a big way of business, and he speaks
so fluently. 'We need industrial development,' he said; 'there is very
little development among us. We must create it. We must create capital, so
we must create a middle-class, the so-called bourgeoisie. And as we haven't
capital we must attract it from abroad. We must, in the first place, give
facilities to foreign companies to buy up lands in Russia as is done now
abroad. The communal holding of land is poison, is ruin.' And, you know, he
spoke with such heat; well, that's all right for him--a wealthy man, and
not in the service. 'With the communal system,' he said, 'there will be no
improvement in industrial development or agriculture. Foreign companies,'
he said, 'must as far as possible buy up the whole of our land in big lots,
and then split it up, split it up, split it up, in the smallest parts
possible'--and do you know he pronounced the words 'split it up' with such
determination--'and then sell it as private property. Or rather, not sell
it, but simply let it. When,' he said, 'all the land is in the hands of
foreign companies they can fix any rent they like. And so the peasant will
work three times as much for his daily bread and he can be turned out at
pleasure. So that he will feel it, will be submissive and industrious, and
will work three times as much for the same wages. But as it is, with the
commune, what does he care? He knows he won't die of hunger, so he is lazy
and drunken. And meanwhile money will be attracted into Russia, capital
will be created and the bourgeoisie will spring up. The English political
and literary paper, _The Times_, in an article the other day on our
finances stated that the reason our financial position was so
unsatisfactory was that we had no middle-class, no big fortunes, no
accommodating proletariat.' Ignaty Prokofyitch speaks well. He is an
orator. He wants to lay a report on the subject before the authorities, and
then to get it published in the _News_. That's something very different
from verses like Ivan Matveitch's...."

"But how about Ivan Matveitch?" I put in, after letting the old man babble
on.

Timofey Semyonitch was sometimes fond of talking and showing that he was
not behind the times, but knew all about things.

"How about Ivan Matveitch? Why, I am coming to that. Here we are, anxious
to bring foreign capital into the country--and only consider: as soon as
the capital of a foreigner, who has been attracted to Petersburg, has been
doubled through Ivan Matveitch, instead of protecting the foreign
capitalist, we are proposing to rip open the belly of his original
capital--the crocodile. Is it consistent? To my mind, Ivan Matveitch, as
the true son of his fatherland, ought to rejoice and to be proud that
through him the value of a foreign crocodile has been doubled and possibly
even trebled. That's just what is wanted to attract capital. If one man
succeeds, mind you, another will come with a crocodile, and a third will
bring two or three of them at once, and capital will grow up about
them--there you have a bourgeoisie. It must be encouraged."

"Upon my word, Timofey Semyonitch!" I cried, "you are demanding almost
supernatural self-sacrifice from poor Ivan Matveitch."

"I demand nothing, and I beg you, before everything--as I have said
already--to remember that I am not a person in authority and so cannot
demand anything of any one. I am speaking as a son of the fatherland, that
is, not as the _Son of the Fatherland_, but as a son of the fatherland.
Again, what possessed him to get into the crocodile? A respectable man, a
man of good grade in the service, lawfully married--and then to behave like
that! Is it consistent?"

"But it was an accident."

"Who knows? And where is the money to compensate the owner to come from?"

"Perhaps out of his salary, Timofey Semyonitch?"

"Would that be enough?"

"No, it wouldn't, Timofey Semyonitch," I answered sadly. "The proprietor
was at first alarmed that the crocodile would burst, but as soon as he was
sure that it was all right, he began to bluster and was delighted to think
that he could double the charge for entry."

"Treble and quadruple perhaps! The public will simply stampede the place
now, and crocodile owners are smart people. Besides, it's not Lent yet, and
people are keen on diversions, and so I say again, the great thing is that
Ivan Matveitch should preserve his incognito, don't let him be in a hurry.
Let everybody know, perhaps, that he is in the crocodile, but don't let
them be officially informed of it. Ivan Matveitch is in particularly
favourable circumstances for that, for he is reckoned to be abroad. It
will be said he is in the crocodile, and we will refuse to believe it. That
is how it can be managed. The great thing is that he should wait; and why
should he be in a hurry?"

"Well, but if ..."

"Don't worry, he has a good constitution...."

"Well, and afterwards, when he has waited?"

"Well, I won't conceal from you that the case is exceptional in the highest
degree. One doesn't know what to think of it, and the worst of it is there
is no precedent. If we had a precedent we might have something to go by.
But as it is, what is one to say? It will certainly take time to settle
it."

A happy thought flashed upon my mind.

"Cannot we arrange," I said, "that if he is destined to remain in the
entrails of the monster and it is the will of Providence that he should
remain alive, that he should send in a petition to be reckoned as still
serving?"

"Hm!... Possibly as on leave and without salary...."

"But couldn't it be with salary?"

"On what grounds?"

"As sent on a special commission."

"What commission and where?"

"Why, into the entrails, the entrails of the crocodile.... So to speak, for
exploration, for investigation of the facts on the spot. It would, of
course, be a novelty, but that is progressive and would at the same time
show zeal for enlightenment."

Timofey Semyonitch thought a little.

"To send a special official," he said at last, "to the inside of a
crocodile to conduct a special inquiry is, in my personal opinion, an
absurdity. It is not in the regulations. And what sort of special inquiry
could there be there?"

"The scientific study of nature on the spot, in the living subject. The
natural sciences are all the fashion nowadays, botany.... He could live
there and report his observations.... For instance, concerning digestion or
simply habits. For the sake of accumulating facts."

"You mean as statistics. Well, I am no great authority on that subject,
indeed I am no philosopher at all. You say 'facts'--we are overwhelmed with
facts as it is, and don't know what to do with them. Besides, statistics
are a danger."

"In what way?"

"They are a danger. Moreover, you will admit he will report facts, so to
speak, lying like a log. And, can one do one's official duties lying like a
log? That would be another novelty and a dangerous one; and again, there is
no precedent for it. If we had any sort of precedent for it, then, to my
thinking, he might have been given the job."

"But no live crocodiles have been brought over hitherto, Timofey
Semyonitch."

"Hm ... yes," he reflected again. "Your objection is a just one, if you
like, and might indeed serve as a ground for carrying the matter further;
but consider again, that if with the arrival of living crocodiles
government clerks begin to disappear, and then on the ground that they are
warm and comfortable there, expect to receive the official sanction for
their position, and then take their ease there ... you must admit it would
be a bad example. We should have every one trying to go the same way to get
a salary for nothing."

"Do your best for him, Timofey Semyonitch. By the way, Ivan Matveitch asked
me to give you seven roubles he had lost to you at cards."

"Ah, he lost that the other day at Nikifor Nikiforitch's. I remember. And
how gay and amusing he was--and now!"

The old man was genuinely touched.

"Intercede for him, Timofey Semyonitch!"

"I will do my best. I will speak in my own name, as a private person, as
though I were asking for information. And meanwhile, you find out
indirectly, unofficially, how much would the proprietor consent to take
for his crocodile?"

Timofey Semyonitch was visibly more friendly.

"Certainly," I answered. "And I will come back to you at once to report."

"And his wife ... is she alone now? Is she depressed?"

"You should call on her, Timofey Semyonitch."

"I will. I thought of doing so before; it's a good opportunity.... And what
on earth possessed him to go and look at the crocodile? Though, indeed, I
should like to see it myself."

"Go and see the poor fellow, Timofey Semyonitch."

"I will. Of course, I don't want to raise his hopes by doing so. I shall go
as a private person.... Well, good-bye, I am going to Nikifor Nikiforitch's
again: shall you be there?"

"No, I am going to see the poor prisoner."

"Yes, now he is a prisoner!... Ah, that's what comes of thoughtlessness!"

I said good-bye to the old man. Ideas of all kinds were straying through my
mind. A good-natured and most honest man, Timofey Semyonitch, yet, as I
left him, I felt pleased at the thought that he had celebrated his fiftieth
year of service, and that Timofey Semyonitchs are now a rarity among us. I
flew at once, of course, to the Arcade to tell poor Ivan Matveitch all the
news. And, indeed, I was moved by curiosity to know how he was getting on
in the crocodile and how it was possible to live in a crocodile. And,
indeed, was it possible to live in a crocodile at all? At times it really
seemed to me as though it were all an outlandish, monstrous dream,
especially as an outlandish monster was the chief figure in it.

III

And yet it was not a dream, but actual, indubitable fact. Should I be
telling the story if it were not? But to continue.

It was late, about nine o'clock, before I reached the Arcade, and I had to
go into the crocodile room by the back entrance, for the German had closed
the shop earlier than usual that evening. Now in the seclusion of
domesticity he was walking about in a greasy old frock-coat, but he seemed
three times as pleased as he had been in the morning. It was evidently that
he had no apprehensions now, and that the public had been coming "many
more." The _Mutter_ came out later, evidently to keep an eye on me. The
German and the _Mutter_ frequently whispered together. Although the shop
was closed he charged me a quarter-rouble! What unnecessary exactitude!

"You will every time pay; the public will one rouble, and you one quarter
pay; for you are the good friend of your good friend; and I a friend
respect...."

"Are you alive, are you alive, my cultured friend?" I cried, as I
approached the crocodile, expecting my words to reach Ivan Matveitch from a
distance and to flatter his vanity.

"Alive and well," he answered, as though from a long way off or from under
the bed, though I was standing close beside him. "Alive and well; but of
that later.... How are things going?"

As though purposely not hearing the question, I was just beginning with
sympathetic haste to question him how he was, what it was like in the
crocodile, and what, in fact, there was inside a crocodile. Both friendship
and common civility demanded this. But with capricious annoyance he
interrupted me.

"How are things going?" he shouted, in a shrill and on this occasion
particularly revolting voice, addressing me peremptorily as usual.

I described to him my whole conversation with Timofey Semyonitch down to
the smallest detail. As I told my story I tried to show my resentment in my
voice.

"The old man is right," Ivan Matveitch pronounced as abruptly as usual in
his conversation with me. "I like practical people, and can't endure
sentimental milk-sops. I am ready to admit, however, that your idea about a
special commission is not altogether absurd. I certainly have a great deal
to report, both from a scientific and from an ethical point of view. But
now all this has taken a new and unexpected aspect, and it is not worth
while to trouble about mere salary. Listen attentively. Are you sitting
down?"

"No, I am standing up."

"Sit down on the floor if there is nothing else, and listen attentively."

Resentfully I took a chair and put it down on the floor with a bang, in my
anger.

"Listen," he began dictatorially. "The public came to-day in masses. There
was no room left in the evening, and the police came in to keep order. At
eight o'clock, that is, earlier than usual, the proprietor thought it
necessary to close the shop and end the exhibition to count the money he
had taken and prepare for to-morrow more conveniently. So I know there will
be a regular fair to-morrow. So we may assume that all the most cultivated
people in the capital, the ladies of the best society, the foreign
ambassadors, the leading lawyers and so on, will all be present. What's
more, people will be flowing here from the remotest provinces of our vast
and interesting empire. The upshot of it is that I am the cynosure of all
eyes, and though hidden to sight, I am eminent. I shall teach the idle
crowd. Taught by experience, I shall be an example of greatness and
resignation to fate! I shall be, so to say, a pulpit from which to instruct
mankind. The mere biological details I can furnish about the monster I am
inhabiting are of priceless value. And so, far from repining at what has
happened, I confidently hope for the most brilliant of careers."

"You won't find it wearisome?" I asked sarcastically.

What irritated me more than anything was the extreme pomposity of his
language. Nevertheless, it all rather disconcerted me. "What on earth,
what, can this frivolous blockhead find to be so cocky about?" I muttered
to myself. "He ought to be crying instead of being cocky."

"No!" he answered my observation sharply, "for I am full of great ideas,
only now can I at leisure ponder over the amelioration of the lot of
humanity. Truth and light will come forth now from the crocodile. I shall
certainly develop a new economic theory of my own and I shall be proud of
it--which I have hitherto been prevented from doing by my official duties
and by trivial distractions. I shall refute everything and be a new
Fourier. By the way, did you give Timofey Semyonitch the seven roubles?"

"Yes, out of my own pocket," I answered, trying to emphasise that fact in
my voice.

"We will settle it," he answered superciliously. "I confidently expect my
salary to be raised, for who should get a raise if not I? I am of the
utmost service now. But to business. My wife?"

"You are, I suppose, inquiring after Elena Ivanovna?"

"My wife?" he shouted, this time in a positive squeal.

There was no help for it! Meekly, though gnashing my teeth, I told him how
I had left Elena Ivanovna. He did not even hear me out.

"I have special plans in regard to her," he began impatiently. "If I am
celebrated _here_, I wish her to be celebrated _there_. Savants, poets,
philosophers, foreign mineralogists, statesmen, after conversing in the
morning with me, will visit her _salon_ in the evening. From next week
onwards she must have an 'At Home' every evening. With my salary doubled,
we shall have the means for entertaining, and as the entertainment must not
go beyond tea and hired footmen--that's settled. Both here and there they
will talk of me. I have long thirsted for an opportunity for being talked
about, but could not attain it, fettered by my humble position and low
grade in the service. And now all this has been attained by a simple gulp
on the part of the crocodile. Every word of mine will be listened to, every
utterance will be thought over, repeated, printed. And I'll teach them what
I am worth! They shall understand at last what abilities they have allowed
to vanish in the entrails of a monster. 'This man might have been Foreign
Minister or might have ruled a kingdom,' some will say. 'And that man did
not rule a kingdom,' others will say. In what way am I inferior to a
Garnier-Pagesishky or whatever they are called? My wife must be a worthy
second--I have brains, she has beauty and charm. 'She is beautiful, and
that is why she is his wife,' some will say. 'She is beautiful _because_
she is his wife,' others will amend. To be ready for anything let Elena
Ivanovna buy to-morrow the Encyclopædia edited by Andrey Kraevsky, that she
may be able to converse on any topic. Above all, let her be sure to read
the political leader in the _Petersburg News_, comparing it every day with
the _Voice_. I imagine that the proprietor will consent to take me
sometimes with the crocodile to my wife's brilliant _salon_. I will be in a
tank in the middle of the magnificent drawing-room, and I will scintillate
with witticisms which I will prepare in the morning. To the statesmen I
will impart my projects; to the poet I will speak in rhyme; with the ladies
I can be amusing and charming without impropriety, since I shall be no
danger to their husbands' peace of mind. To all the rest I shall serve as a
pattern of resignation to fate and the will of Providence. I shall make my
wife a brilliant literary lady; I shall bring her forward and explain her
to the public; as my wife she must be full of the most striking virtues;
and if they are right in calling Andrey Alexandrovitch our Russian Alfred
de Musset, they will be still more right in calling her our Russian
Yevgenia Tour."

I must confess that although this wild nonsense was rather in Ivan
Matveitch's habitual style, it did occur to me that he was in a fever and
delirious. It was the same, everyday Ivan Matveitch, but magnified twenty
times.

"My friend," I asked him, "are you hoping for a long life? Tell me, in
fact, are you well? How do you eat, how do you sleep, how do you breathe? I
am your friend, and you must admit that the incident is most unnatural, and
consequently my curiosity is most natural."

"Idle curiosity and nothing else," he pronounced sententiously, "but you
shall be satisfied. You ask how I am managing in the entrails of the
monster? To begin with, the crocodile, to my amusement, turns out to be
perfectly empty. His inside consists of a sort of huge empty sack made of
gutta-percha, like the elastic goods sold in the Gorohovy Street, in the
Morskaya, and, if I am not mistaken, in the Voznesensky Prospect.
Otherwise, if you think of it, how could I find room?"

"Is it possible?" I cried, in a surprise that may well be understood. "Can
the crocodile be perfectly empty?"

"Perfectly," Ivan Matveitch maintained sternly and impressively. "And in
all probability, it is so constructed by the laws of Nature. The crocodile
possesses nothing but jaws furnished with sharp teeth, and besides the
jaws, a tail of considerable length--that is all, properly speaking. The
middle part between these two extremities is an empty space enclosed by
something of the nature of gutta-percha, probably really gutta-percha."

"But the ribs, the stomach, the intestines, the liver, the heart?" I
interrupted quite angrily.

"There is nothing, absolutely nothing of all that, and probably there never
has been. All that is the idle fancy of frivolous travellers. As one
inflates an air-cushion, I am now with my person inflating the crocodile.
He is incredibly elastic. Indeed, you might, as the friend of the family,
get in with me if you were generous and self-sacrificing enough--and even
with you here there would be room to spare. I even think that in the last
resort I might send for Elena Ivanovna. However, this void, hollow
formation of the crocodile is quite in keeping with the teachings of
natural science. If, for instance, one had to construct a new crocodile,
the question would naturally present itself. What is the fundamental
characteristic of the crocodile? The answer is clear: to swallow human
beings. How is one, in constructing the crocodile, to secure that he should
swallow people? The answer is clearer still: construct him hollow. It was
settled by physics long ago that Nature abhors a vacuum. Hence the inside
of the crocodile must be hollow so that it may abhor the vacuum, and
consequently swallow and so fill itself with anything it can come across.
And that is the sole rational cause why every crocodile swallows men. It is
not the same in the constitution of man: the emptier a man's head is, for
instance, the less he feels the thirst to fill it, and that is the one
exception to the general rule. It is all as clear as day to me now. I have
deduced it by my own observation and experience, being, so to say, in the
very bowels of Nature, in its retort, listening to the throbbing of its
pulse. Even etymology supports me, for the very word crocodile means
voracity. Crocodile--_crocodillo_--is evidently an Italian word, dating
perhaps from the Egyptian Pharaohs, and evidently derived from the French
verb _croquer_, which means to eat, to devour, in general to absorb
nourishment. All these remarks I intend to deliver as my first lecture in
Elena Ivanovna's _salon_ when they take me there in the tank."

"My friend, oughtn't you at least to take some purgative?" I cried
involuntarily.

"He is in a fever, a fever, he is feverish!" I repeated to myself in alarm.

"Nonsense!" he answered contemptuously. "Besides, in my present position it
would be most inconvenient. I knew, though, you would be sure to talk of
taking medicine."

"But, my friend, how ... how do you take food now? Have you dined to-day?"

"No, but I am not hungry, and most likely I shall never take food again.
And that, too, is quite natural; filling the whole interior of the
crocodile I make him feel always full. Now he need not be fed for some
years. On the other hand, nourished by me, he will naturally impart to me
all the vital juices of his body; it is the same as with some accomplished
coquettes who embed themselves and their whole persons for the night in raw
steak, and then, after their morning bath, are fresh, supple, buxom and
fascinating. In that way nourishing the crocodile, I myself obtain
nourishment from him, consequently we mutually nourish one another. But as
it is difficult even for a crocodile to digest a man like me, he must, no
doubt, be conscious of a certain weight in his stomach--an organ which he
does not, however, possess--and that is why, to avoid causing the creature
suffering, I do not often turn over, and although I could turn over I do
not do so from humanitarian motives. This is the one drawback of my present
position, and in an allegorical sense Timofey Semyonitch was right in
saying I was lying like a log. But I will prove that even lying like a
log--nay, that only lying like a log--one can revolutionise the lot of
mankind. All the great ideas and movements of our newspapers and magazines
have evidently been the work of men who were lying like logs; that is why
they call them divorced from the realities of life--but what does it
matter, their saying that! I am constructing now a complete system of my
own, and you wouldn't believe how easy it is! You have only to creep into a
secluded corner or into a crocodile, to shut your eyes, and you immediately
devise a perfect millennium for mankind. When you went away this afternoon
I set to work at once and have already invented three systems, now I am
preparing the fourth. It is true that at first one must refute everything
that has gone before, but from the crocodile it is so easy to refute it;
besides, it all becomes clearer, seen from the inside of the crocodile....
There are some drawbacks, though small ones, in my position, however; it is
somewhat damp here and covered with a sort of slime; moreover, there is a
smell of india-rubber like the smell of my old galoshes. That is all, there
are no other drawbacks."

"Ivan Matveitch," I interrupted, "all this is a miracle in which I can
scarcely believe. And can you, can you intend never to dine again?"

"What trivial nonsense you are troubling about, you thoughtless, frivolous
creature! I talk to you about great ideas, and you.... Understand that I am
sufficiently nourished by the great ideas which light up the darkness in
which I am enveloped. The good-natured proprietor has, however, after
consulting the kindly _Mutter_, decided with her that they will every
morning insert into the monster's jaws a bent metal tube, something like a
whistle pipe, by means of which I can absorb coffee or broth with bread
soaked in it. The pipe has already been bespoken in the neighbourhood, but
I think this is superfluous luxury. I hope to live at least a thousand
years, if it is true that crocodiles live so long, which, by the way--good
thing I thought of it--you had better look up in some natural history
to-morrow and tell me, for I may have been mistaken and have mixed it up
with some excavated monster. There is only one reflection rather troubles
me: as I am dressed in cloth and have boots on, the crocodile can obviously
not digest me. Besides, I am alive, and so am opposing the process of
digestion with my whole will power; for you can understand that I do not
wish to be turned into what all nourishment turns into, for that would be
too humiliating for me. But there is one thing I am afraid of: in a
thousand years the cloth of my coat, unfortunately of Russian make, may
decay, and then, left without clothing, I might perhaps, in spite of my
indignation, begin to be digested; and though by day nothing would induce
me to allow it, at night, in my sleep, when a man's will deserts him, I may
be overtaken by the humiliating destiny of a potato, a pancake, or veal.
Such an idea reduces me to fury. This alone is an argument for the revision
of the tariff and the encouragement of the importation of English cloth,
which is stronger and so will withstand Nature longer when one is swallowed
by a crocodile. At the first opportunity I will impart this idea to some
statesman and at the same time to the political writers on our Petersburg
dailies. Let them publish it abroad. I trust this will not be the only idea
they will borrow from me. I foresee that every morning a regular crowd of
them, provided with quarter-roubles from the editorial office, will be
flocking round me to seize my ideas on the telegrams of the previous day.
In brief, the future presents itself to me in the rosiest light."

"Fever, fever!" I whispered to myself.

"My friend, and freedom?" I asked, wishing to learn his views thoroughly.
"You are, so to speak, in prison, while every man has a right to the
enjoyment of freedom."

"You are a fool," he answered. "Savages love independence, wise men love
order; and if there is no order...."

"Ivan Matveitch, spare me, please!"

"Hold your tongue and listen!" he squealed, vexed at my interrupting him.
"Never has my spirit soared as now. In my narrow refuge there is only one
thing that I dread--the literary criticisms of the monthlies and the hiss
of our satirical papers. I am afraid that thoughtless visitors, stupid and
envious people and nihilists in general, may turn me into ridicule. But I
will take measures. I am impatiently awaiting the response of the public
to-morrow, and especially the opinion of the newspapers. You must tell me
about the papers to-morrow."

"Very good; to-morrow I will bring a perfect pile of papers with me."

"To-morrow it is too soon to expect reports in the newspapers, for it will
take four days for it to be advertised. But from to-day come to me every
evening by the back way through the yard. I am intending to employ you as
my secretary. You shall read the newspapers and magazines to me, and I will
dictate to you my ideas and give you commissions. Be particularly careful
not to forget the foreign telegrams. Let all the European telegrams be here
every day. But enough; most likely you are sleepy by now. Go home, and do
not think of what I said just now about criticisms: I am not afraid of it,
for the critics themselves are in a critical position. One has only to be
wise and virtuous and one will certainly get on to a pedestal. If not
Socrates, then Diogenes, or perhaps both of them together--that is my
future rôle among mankind."

So frivolously and boastfully did Ivan Matveitch hasten to express himself
before me, like feverish weak-willed women who, as we are told by the
proverb, cannot keep a secret. All that he told me about the crocodile
struck me as most suspicious. How was it possible that the crocodile was
absolutely hollow? I don't mind betting that he was bragging from vanity
and partly to humiliate me. It is true that he was an invalid and one must
make allowances for invalids; but I must frankly confess, I never could
endure Ivan Matveitch. I have been trying all my life, from a child up, to
escape from his tutelage and have not been able to! A thousand times over I
have been tempted to break with him altogether, and every time I have been
drawn to him again, as though I were still hoping to prove something to him
or to revenge myself on him. A strange thing, this friendship! I can
positively assert that nine-tenths of my friendship for him was made up of
malice. On this occasion, however, we parted with genuine feeling.

"Your friend a very clever man!" the German said to me in an undertone as
he moved to see me out; he had been listening all the time attentively to
our conversation.

"_À propos_," I said, "while I think of it: how much would you ask for your
crocodile in case any one wanted to buy it?"

Ivan Matveitch, who heard the question, was waiting with curiosity for the
answer; it was evident that he did not want the German to ask too little;
anyway, he cleared his throat in a peculiar way on hearing my question.

At first the German would not listen--was positively angry.

"No one will dare my own crocodile to buy!" he cried furiously, and turned
as red as a boiled lobster. "Me not want to sell the crocodile! I would not
for the crocodile a million thalers take. I took a hundred and thirty
thalers from the public to-day, and I shall to-morrow ten thousand take,
and then a hundred thousand every day I shall take. I will not him sell."

Ivan Matveitch positively chuckled with satisfaction. Controlling
myself--for I felt it was a duty to my friend--I hinted coolly and
reasonably to the crazy German that his calculations were not quite
correct, that if he makes a hundred thousand every day, all Petersburg will
have visited him in four days, and then there will be no one left to bring
him roubles, that life and death are in God's hands, that the crocodile may
burst or Ivan Matveitch may fall ill and die, and so on and so on.

The German grew pensive.

"I will him drops from the chemist's get," he said, after pondering, "and
will save your friend that he die not."

"Drops are all very well," I answered, "but consider, too, that the thing
may get into the law courts. Ivan Matveitch's wife may demand the
restitution of her lawful spouse. You are intending to get rich, but do you
intend to give Elena Ivanovna a pension?"

"No, me not intend," said the German in stern decision.

"No, we not intend," said the _Mutter_, with positive malignancy.

"And so would it not be better for you to accept something now, at once, a
secure and solid though moderate sum, than to leave things to chance? I
ought to tell you that I am inquiring simply from curiosity."

The German drew the _Mutter_ aside to consult with her in a corner where
there stood a case with the largest and ugliest monkey of his collection.

"Well, you will see!" said Ivan Matveitch.

As for me, I was at that moment burning with the desire, first, to give the
German a thrashing, next, to give the _Mutter_ an even sounder one, and,
thirdly, to give Ivan Matveitch the soundest thrashing of all for his
boundless vanity. But all this paled beside the answer of the rapacious
German.

After consultation with the _Mutter_ he demanded for his crocodile fifty
thousand roubles in bonds of the last Russian loan with lottery voucher
attached, a brick house in Gorohovy Street with a chemist's shop attached,
and in addition the rank of Russian colonel.

"You see!" Ivan Matveitch cried triumphantly. "I told you so! Apart from
this last senseless desire for the rank of a colonel, he is perfectly
right, for he fully understands the present value of the monster he is
exhibiting. The economic principle before everything!"

"Upon my word!" I cried furiously to the German. "But what should you be
made a colonel for? What exploit have you performed? What service have you
done? In what way have you gained military glory? You are really crazy!"

"Crazy!" cried the German, offended. "No, a person very sensible, but you
very stupid! I have a colonel deserved for that I have a crocodile shown
and in him a live _hofrath_ sitting! And a Russian can a crocodile not show
and a live _hofrath_ in him sitting! Me extremely clever man and much wish
colonel to be!"

"Well, good-bye, then, Ivan Matveitch!" I cried, shaking with fury, and I
went out of the crocodile room almost at a run.

I felt that in another minute I could not have answered for myself. The
unnatural expectations of these two block-heads were insupportable. The
cold air refreshed me and somewhat moderated my indignation. At last, after
spitting vigorously fifteen times on each side, I took a cab, got home,
undressed and flung myself into bed. What vexed me more than anything was
my having become his secretary. Now I was to die of boredom there every
evening, doing the duty of a true friend! I was ready to beat myself for
it, and I did, in fact, after putting out the candle and pulling up the
bedclothes, punch myself several times on the head and various parts of my
body. That somewhat relieved me, and at last I fell asleep fairly soundly,
in fact, for I was very tired. All night long I could dream of nothing but
monkeys, but towards morning I dreamt of Elena Ivanovna.

IV

The monkeys I dreamed about, I surmise, because they were shut up in the
case at the German's; but Elena Ivanovna was a different story.

I may as well say at once, I loved the lady, but I make
haste--post-haste--to make a qualification. I loved her as a father,
neither more nor less. I judge that because I often felt an irresistible
desire to kiss her little head or her rosy cheek. And though I never
carried out this inclination, I would not have refused even to kiss her
lips. And not merely her lips, but her teeth, which always gleamed so
charmingly like two rows of pretty, well-matched pearls when she laughed.
She laughed extraordinarily often. Ivan Matveitch in demonstrative moments
used to call her his "darling absurdity"--a name extremely happy and
appropriate. She was a perfect sugar-plum, and that was all one could say
of her. Therefore I am utterly at a loss to understand what possessed Ivan
Matveitch to imagine his wife as a Russian Yevgenia Tour? Anyway, my dream,
with the exception of the monkeys, left a most pleasant impression upon me,
and going over all the incidents of the previous day as I drank my morning
cup of tea, I resolved to go and see Elena Ivanovna at once on my way to
the office--which, indeed, I was bound to do as the friend of the family.

In a tiny little room out of the bedroom--the so-called little
drawing-room, though their big drawing-room was little too--Elena Ivanovna
was sitting, in some half-transparent morning wrapper, on a smart little
sofa before a little tea-table, drinking coffee out of a little cup in
which she was dipping a minute biscuit. She was ravishingly pretty, but
struck me as being at the same time rather pensive.

"Ah, that's you, naughty man!" she said, greeting me with an absent-minded
smile. "Sit down, feather-head, have some coffee. Well, what were you doing
yesterday? Were you at the masquerade?"

"Why, were you? I don't go, you know. Besides, yesterday I was visiting our
captive...." I sighed and assumed a pious expression as I took the coffee.

"Whom?... What captive?... Oh, yes! Poor fellow! Well, how is he--bored? Do
you know ... I wanted to ask you.... I suppose I can ask for a divorce
now?"

"A divorce!" I cried in indignation and almost spilled the coffee. "It's
that swarthy fellow," I thought to myself bitterly.

There was a certain swarthy gentleman with little moustaches who was
something in the architectural line, and who came far too often to see
them, and was extremely skilful in amusing Elena Ivanovna. I must confess
I hated him and there was no doubt that he had succeeded in seeing Elena
Ivanovna yesterday either at the masquerade or even here, and putting all
sorts of nonsense into her head.

"Why," Elena Ivanovna rattled off hurriedly, as though it were a lesson she
had learnt, "if he is going to stay on in the crocodile, perhaps not come
back all his life, while I sit waiting for him here! A husband ought to
live at home, and not in a crocodile...."

"But this was an unforeseen occurrence," I was beginning, in very
comprehensible agitation.

"Oh, no, don't talk to me, I won't listen, I won't listen," she cried,
suddenly getting quite cross. "You are always against me, you wretch!
There's no doing anything with you, you will never give me any advice!
Other people tell me that I can get a divorce because Ivan Matveitch will
not get his salary now."

"Elena Ivanovna! is it you I hear!" I exclaimed pathetically. "What villain
could have put such an idea into your head? And divorce on such a trivial
ground as a salary is quite impossible. And poor Ivan Matveitch, poor Ivan
Matveitch is, so to speak, burning with love for you even in the bowels of
the monster. What's more, he is melting away with love like a lump of
sugar. Yesterday while you were enjoying yourself at the masquerade, he was
saying that he might in the last resort send for you as his lawful spouse
to join him in the entrails of the monster, especially as it appears the
crocodile is exceedingly roomy, not only able to accommodate two but even
three persons...."

And then I told her all that interesting part of my conversation the night
before with Ivan Matveitch.

"What, what!" she cried, in surprise. "You want me to get into the monster
too, to be with Ivan Matveitch? What an idea! And how am I to get in there,
in my hat and crinoline? Heavens, what foolishness! And what should I look
like while I was getting into it, and very likely there would be some one
there to see me! It's absurd! And what should I have to eat there? And ...
and ... and what should I do there when.... Oh, my goodness, what will they
think of next?... And what should I have to amuse me there?... You say
there's a smell of gutta-percha? And what should I do if we
quarrelled--should we have to go on staying there side by side? Foo, how
horrid!"

"I agree, I agree with all those arguments, my sweet Elena Ivanovna," I
interrupted, striving to express myself with that natural enthusiasm which
always overtakes a man when he feels the truth is on his side. "But one
thing you have not appreciated in all this, you have not realised that he
cannot live without you if he is inviting you there; that is a proof of
love, passionate, faithful, ardent love.... You have thought too little of
his love, dear Elena Ivanovna!"

"I won't, I won't, I won't hear anything about it!" waving me off with her
pretty little hand with glistening pink nails that had just been washed and
polished. "Horrid man! You will reduce me to tears! Get into it yourself,
if you like the prospect. You are his friend, get in and keep him company,
and spend your life discussing some tedious science...."

"You are wrong to laugh at this suggestion"--I checked the frivolous woman
with dignity--"Ivan Matveitch has invited me as it is. You, of course, are
summoned there by duty; for me, it would be an act of generosity. But when
Ivan Matveitch described to me last night the elasticity of the crocodile,
he hinted very plainly that there would be room not only for you two, but
for me also as a friend of the family, especially if I wished to join you,
and therefore...."

"How so, the three of us?" cried Elena Ivanovna, looking at me in surprise.
"Why, how should we ... are we going to be all three there together?
Ha-ha-ha! How silly you both are! Ha-ha-ha! I shall certainly pinch you all
the time, you wretch! Ha-ha-ha! Ha-ha-ha!"

And falling back on the sofa, she laughed till she cried. All this--the
tears and the laughter--were so fascinating that I could not resist rushing
eagerly to kiss her hand, which she did not oppose, though she did pinch my
ears lightly as a sign of reconciliation.

Then we both grew very cheerful, and I described to her in detail all Ivan
Matveitch's plans. The thought of her evening receptions and her _salon_
pleased her very much.

"Only I should need a great many new dresses," she observed, "and so Ivan
Matveitch must send me as much of his salary as possible and as soon as
possible. Only ... only I don't know about that," she added thoughtfully.
"How can he be brought here in the tank? That's very absurd. I don't want
my husband to be carried about in a tank. I should feel quite ashamed for
my visitors to see it.... I don't want that, no, I don't."

"By the way, while I think of it, was Timofey Semyonitch here yesterday?"

"Oh, yes, he was; he came to comfort me, and do you know, we played cards
all the time. He played for sweet-meats, and if I lost he was to kiss my
hands. What a wretch he is! And only fancy, he almost came to the
masquerade with me, really!"

"He was carried away by his feelings!" I observed. "And who would not be
with you, you charmer?"

"Oh, get along with your compliments! Stay, I'll give you a pinch as a
parting present. I've learnt to pinch awfully well lately. Well, what do
you say to that? By the way, you say Ivan Matveitch spoke several times of
me yesterday?"

"N-no, not exactly.... I must say he is thinking more now of the fate of
humanity, and wants...."

"Oh, let him! You needn't go on! I am sure it's fearfully boring. I'll go
and see him some time. I shall certainly go to-morrow. Only not to-day;
I've got a headache, and besides, there will be such a lot of people there
to-day.... They'll say, 'That's his wife,' and I shall feel ashamed....
Good-bye. You will be ... there this evening, won't you?"

"To see him, yes. He asked me to go and take him the papers."

"That's capital. Go and read to him. But don't come and see me to-day. I am
not well, and perhaps I may go and see some one. Good-bye, you naughty
man."

"It's that swarthy fellow is going to see her this evening," I thought.

At the office, of course, I gave no sign of being consumed by these cares
and anxieties. But soon I noticed some of the most progressive papers
seemed to be passing particularly rapidly from hand to hand among my
colleagues, and were being read with an extremely serious expression of
face. The first one that reached me was the _News-sheet_, a paper of no
particular party but humanitarian in general, for which it was regarded
with contempt among us, though it was read. Not without surprise I read in
it the following paragraph:

"Yesterday strange rumours were circulating among the spacious ways and
sumptuous buildings of our vast metropolis. A certain well-known
_bon-vivant_ of the highest society, probably weary of the _cuisine_ at
Borel's and at the X. Club, went into the Arcade, into the place where an
immense crocodile recently brought to the metropolis is being exhibited,
and insisted on its being prepared for his dinner. After bargaining with
the proprietor he at once set to work to devour him (that is, not the
proprietor, a very meek and punctilious German, but his crocodile), cutting
juicy morsels with his penknife from the living animal, and swallowing them
with extraordinary rapidity. By degrees the whole crocodile disappeared
into the vast recesses of his stomach, so that he was even on the point of
attacking an ichneumon, a constant companion of the crocodile, probably
imagining that the latter would be as savoury. We are by no means opposed
to that new article of diet with which foreign _gourmands_ have long been
familiar. We have, indeed, predicted that it would come. English lords and
travellers make up regular parties for catching crocodiles in Egypt, and
consume the back of the monster cooked like beefsteak, with mustard, onions
and potatoes. The French who followed in the train of Lesseps prefer the
paws baked-in hot ashes, which they do, however, in opposition to the
English, who laugh at them. Probably both ways would be appreciated among
us. For our part, we are delighted at a new branch of industry, of which
our great and varied fatherland stands pre-eminently in need. Probably
before a year is out crocodiles will be brought in hundreds to replace this
first one, lost in the stomach of a Petersburg _gourmand_. And why should
not the crocodile be acclimatised among us in Russia? If the water of the
Neva is too cold for these interesting strangers, there are ponds in the
capital and rivers and lakes outside it. Why not breed crocodiles at
Pargolovo, for instance, or at Pavlovsk, in the Presnensky Ponds and in
Samoteka in Moscow? While providing agreeable, wholesome nourishment for
our fastidious _gourmands_, they might at the same time entertain the
ladies who walk about these ponds and instruct the children in natural
history. The crocodile skin might be used for making jewel-cases, boxes,
cigar-cases, pocket-books, and possibly more than one thousand saved up in
the greasy notes that are peculiarly beloved of merchants might be laid by
in crocodile skin. We hope to return more than once to this interesting
topic."

Though I had foreseen something of the sort, yet the reckless inaccuracy of
the paragraph overwhelmed me. Finding no one with whom to share my
impression, I turned to Prohor Savvitch who was sitting opposite to me, and
noticed that the latter had been watching me for some time, while in his
hand he held the _Voice_ as though he were on the point of passing it to
me. Without a word he took the _News-sheet_ from me, and as he handed me
the _Voice_ he drew a line with his nail against an article to which he
probably wished to call my attention. This Prohor Savvitch was a very queer
man: a taciturn old bachelor, he was not on intimate terms with any of us,
scarcely spoke to any one in the office, always had an opinion of his own
about everything, but could not bear to import it to any one. He lived
alone. Hardly any one among us had ever been in his lodging.

This was what I read in the _Voice_.

"Every one knows that we are progressive and humanitarian and want to be on
a level with Europe in this respect. But in spite of all our exertions and
the efforts of our paper we are still far from maturity, as may be judged
from the shocking incident which took place yesterday in the Arcade and
which we predicted long ago. A foreigner arrives in the capital bringing
with him a crocodile which he begins exhibiting in the Arcade. We
immediately hasten to welcome a new branch of useful industry such as our
powerful and varied fatherland stands in great need of. Suddenly yesterday
at four o'clock in the afternoon a gentleman of exceptional stoutness
enters the foreigner's shop in an intoxicated condition, pays his entrance
money, and immediately without any warning leaps into the jaws of the
crocodile, who was forced, of course, to swallow him, if only from an
instinct of self-preservation, to avoid being crushed. Tumbling into the
inside of the crocodile, the stranger at once dropped asleep. Neither the
shouts of the foreign proprietor, nor the lamentations of his terrified
family, nor threats to send for the police made the slightest impression.
Within the crocodile was heard nothing but laughter and a promise to flay
him (_sic_), though the poor mammal, compelled to swallow such a mass, was
vainly shedding tears. An uninvited guest is worse than a Tartar. But in
spite of the proverb the insolent visitor would not leave. We do not know
how to explain such barbarous incidents which prove our lack of culture
and disgrace us in the eyes of foreigners. The recklessness of the Russian
temperament has found a fresh outlet. It may be asked what was the object
of the uninvited visitor? A warm and comfortable abode? But there are many
excellent houses in the capital with very cheap and comfortable lodgings,
with the Neva water laid on, and a staircase lighted by gas, frequently
with a hall-porter maintained by the proprietor. We would call our readers'
attention to the barbarous treatment of domestic animals: it is difficult,
of course, for the crocodile to digest such a mass all at once, and now he
lies swollen out to the size of a mountain, awaiting death in insufferable
agonies. In Europe persons guilty of inhumanity towards domestic animals
have long been punished by law. But in spite of our European enlightenment,
in spite of our European pavements, in spite of the European architecture
of our houses, we are still far from shaking off our time-honoured
traditions.

    "Though the houses are new, the conventions are old."

And, indeed, the houses are not new, at least the staircases in them are
not. We have more than once in our paper alluded to the fact that in the
Petersburg Side in the house of the merchant Lukyanov the steps of the
wooden staircase have decayed, fallen away, and have long been a danger for
Afimya Skapidarov, a soldier's wife who works in the house, and is often
obliged to go up the stairs with water or armfuls of wood. At last our
predictions have come true: yesterday evening at half-past eight Afimya
Skapidarov fell down with a basin of soup and broke her leg. We do not know
whether Lukyanov will mend his staircase now, Russians are often wise after
the event, but the victim of Russian carelessness has by now been taken to
the hospital. In the same way we shall never cease to maintain that the
house-porters who clear away the mud from the wooden pavement in the
Viborgsky Side ought not to spatter the legs of passers-by, but should
throw the mud up into heaps as is done in Europe," and so on, and so on.

"What's this?" I asked in some perplexity, looking at Prohor Savvitch.
"What's the meaning of it?"

"How do you mean?"

"Why, upon my word! Instead of pitying Ivan Matveitch, they pity the
crocodile!"

"What of it? They have pity even for a beast, a _mammal_. We must be up to
Europe, mustn't we? They have a very warm feeling for crocodiles there too.
He-he-he!"

Saying this, queer old Prohor Savvitch dived into his papers and would not
utter another word.

I stuffed the _Voice_ and the _News-sheet_ into my pocket and collected as
many old copies of the newspapers as I could find for Ivan Matveitch's
diversion in the evening, and though the evening was far off, yet on this
occasion I slipped away from the office early to go to the Arcade and look,
if only from a distance, at what was going on there, and to listen to the
various remarks and currents of opinion. I foresaw that there would be a
regular crush there, and turned up the collar of my coat to meet it. I
somehow felt rather shy--so unaccustomed are we to publicity. But I feel
that I have no right to report my own prosaic feelings when faced with this
remarkable and original incident.

BOBOK

FROM SOMEBODY'S DIARY

Semyon Ardalyonovitch said to me all of a sudden the day before yesterday:
"Why, will you ever be sober, Ivan Ivanovitch? Tell me that, pray."

A strange requirement. I did not resent it, I am a timid man; but here they
have actually made me out mad. An artist painted my portrait as it
happened: "After all, you are a literary man," he said. I submitted, he
exhibited it. I read: "Go and look at that morbid face suggesting
insanity."

It may be so, but think of putting it so bluntly into print. In print
everything ought to be decorous; there ought to be ideals, while instead of
that....

Say it indirectly, at least; that's what you have style for. But no, he
doesn't care to do it indirectly. Nowadays humour and a fine style have
disappeared, and abuse is accepted as wit. I do not resent it: but God
knows I am not enough of a literary man to go out of my mind. I have
written a novel, it has not been published. I have written articles--they
have been refused. Those articles I took about from one editor to another;
everywhere they refused them: you have no salt they told me. "What sort of
salt do you want?" I asked with a jeer. "Attic salt?"

They did not even understand. For the most part I translate from the French
for the booksellers. I write advertisements for shopkeepers too: "Unique
opportunity! Fine tea, from our own plantations ..." I made a nice little
sum over a panegyric on his deceased excellency Pyotr Matveyitch. I
compiled the "Art of pleasing the ladies," a commission from a bookseller.
I have brought out some six little works of this kind in the course of my
life. I am thinking of making a collection of the _bon mots_ of Voltaire,
but am afraid it may seem a little flat to our people. Voltaire's no good
now; nowadays we want a cudgel, not Voltaire. We knock each other's last
teeth out nowadays. Well, so that's the whole extent of my literary
activity. Though indeed I do send round letters to the editors gratis and
fully signed. I give them all sorts of counsels and admonitions, criticise
and point out the true path. The letter I sent last week to an editor's
office was the fortieth I had sent in the last two years. I have wasted
four roubles over stamps alone for them. My temper is at the bottom of it
all.

I believe that the artist who painted me did so not for the sake of
literature, but for the sake of two symmetrical warts on my forehead, a
natural phenomenon, he would say. They have no ideas, so now they are out
for phenomena. And didn't he succeed in getting my warts in his
portrait--to the life. That is what they call realism.

And as to madness, a great many people were put down as mad among us last
year. And in such language! "With such original talent" ... "and yet, after
all, it appears" ... "however, one ought to have foreseen it long ago."
That is rather artful; so that from the point of view of pure art one may
really commend it. Well, but after all, these so-called madmen have turned
out cleverer than ever. So it seems the critics can call them mad, but they
cannot produce any one better.

The wisest of all, in my opinion, is he who can, if only once a month, call
himself a fool--a faculty unheard of nowadays. In old days, once a year at
any rate a fool would recognise that he was a fool, but nowadays not a bit
of it. And they have so muddled things up that there is no telling a fool
from a wise man. They have done that on purpose.

I remember a witty Spaniard saying when, two hundred and fifty years ago,
the French built their first madhouses: "They have shut up all their fools
in a house apart, to make sure that they are wise men themselves." Just so:
you don't show your own wisdom by shutting some one else in a madhouse. "K.
has gone out of his mind, means that we are sane now." No, it doesn't mean
that yet.

Hang it though, why am I maundering on? I go on grumbling and grumbling.
Even my maidservant is sick of me. Yesterday a friend came to see me. "Your
style is changing," he said; "it is choppy: you chop and chop--and then a
parenthesis, then a parenthesis in the parenthesis, then you stick in
something else in brackets, then you begin chopping and chopping again."

The friend is right. Something strange is happening to me. My character is
changing and my head aches. I am beginning to see and hear strange things,
not voices exactly, but as though some one beside me were muttering,
"_bobok, bobok, bobok_!"

What's the meaning of this _bobok_? I must divert my mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went out in search of diversion, I hit upon a funeral. A distant
relation--a collegiate counsellor, however. A widow and five daughters, all
marriageable young ladies. What must it come to even to keep them in
slippers. Their father managed it, but now there is only a little pension.
They will have to eat humble pie. They have always received me
ungraciously. And indeed I should not have gone to the funeral now had it
not been for a peculiar circumstance. I followed the procession to the
cemetery with the rest; they were stuck-up and held aloof from me. My
uniform was certainly rather shabby. It's five-and-twenty years, I believe,
since I was at the cemetery; what a wretched place!

To begin with the smell. There were fifteen hearses, with palls varying in
expensiveness; there were actually two catafalques. One was a general's and
one some lady's. There were many mourners, a great deal of feigned
mourning and a great deal of open gaiety. The clergy have nothing to
complain of; it brings them a good income. But the smell, the smell. I
should not like to be one of the clergy here.

I kept glancing at the faces of the dead cautiously, distrusting my
impressionability. Some had a mild expression, some looked unpleasant. As a
rule the smiles were disagreeable, and in some cases very much so. I don't
like them; they haunt one's dreams.

During the service I went out of the church into the air: it was a grey
day, but dry. It was cold too, but then it was October. I walked about
among the tombs. They are of different grades. The third grade cost thirty
roubles; it's decent and not so very dear. The first two grades are tombs
in the church and under the porch; they cost a pretty penny. On this
occasion they were burying in tombs of the third grade six persons, among
them the general and the lady.

I looked into the graves--and it was horrible: water and such water!
Absolutely green, and ... but there, why talk of it! The gravedigger was
baling it out every minute. I went out while the service was going on and
strolled outside the gates. Close by was an almshouse, and a little further
off there was a restaurant. It was not a bad little restaurant: there was
lunch and everything. There were lots of the mourners here. I noticed a
great deal of gaiety and genuine heartiness. I had something to eat and
drink.

Then I took part in the bearing of the coffin from the church to the grave.
Why is it that corpses in their coffins are so heavy? They say it is due to
some sort of inertia, that the body is no longer directed by its owner ...
or some nonsense of that sort, in opposition to the laws of mechanics and
common sense. I don't like to hear people who have nothing but a general
education venture to solve the problems that require special knowledge; and
with us that's done continually. Civilians love to pass opinions about
subjects that are the province of the soldier and even of the
field-marshal; while men who have been educated as engineers prefer
discussing philosophy and political economy.

I did not go to the requiem service. I have some pride, and if I am only
received owing to some special necessity, why force myself on their
dinners, even if it be a funeral dinner. The only thing I don't understand
is why I stayed at the cemetery; I sat on a tombstone and sank into
appropriate reflections.

I began with the Moscow exhibition and ended with reflecting upon
astonishment in the abstract. My deductions about astonishment were these:

"To be surprised at everything is stupid of course, and to be astonished at
nothing is a great deal more becoming and for some reason accepted as good
form. But that is not really true. To my mind to be astonished at nothing
is much more stupid than to be astonished at everything. And, moreover, to
be astonished at nothing is almost the same as feeling respect for nothing.
And indeed a stupid man is incapable of feeling respect."

"But what I desire most of all is to feel respect. I _thirst_ to feel
respect," one of my acquaintances said to me the other day.

He thirsts to feel respect! Goodness, I thought, what would happen to you
if you dared to print that nowadays?

At that point I sank into forgetfulness. I don't like reading the epitaphs
of tombstones: they are everlastingly the same. An unfinished sandwich was
lying on the tombstone near me; stupid and inappropriate. I threw it on the
ground, as it was not bread but only a sandwich. Though I believe it is not
a sin to throw bread on the earth, but only on the floor. I must look it up
in Suvorin's calendar.

I suppose I sat there a long time--too long a time, in fact; I must have
lain down on a long stone which was of the shape of a marble coffin. And
how it happened I don't know, but I began to hear things of all sorts
being said. At first I did not pay attention to it, but treated it with
contempt. But the conversation went on. I heard muffled sounds as though
the speakers' mouths were covered with a pillow, and at the same time they
were distinct and very near. I came to myself, sat up and began listening
attentively.

"Your Excellency, it's utterly impossible. You led hearts, I return your
lead, and here you play the seven of diamonds. You ought to have given me a
hint about diamonds."

"What, play by hard and fast rules? Where is the charm of that?"

"You must, your Excellency. One can't do anything without something to go
upon. We must play with dummy, let one hand not be turned up."

"Well, you won't find a dummy here."

What conceited words! And it was queer and unexpected. One was such a
ponderous, dignified voice, the other softly suave; I should not have
believed it if I had not heard it myself. I had not been to the requiem
dinner, I believe. And yet how could they be playing preference here and
what general was this? That the sounds came from under the tombstones of
that there could be no doubt. I bent down and read on the tomb:

"Here lies the body of Major-General Pervoyedov ... a cavalier of such and
such orders." Hm! "Passed away in August of this year ... fifty-seven....
Rest, beloved ashes, till the joyful dawn!"

Hm, dash it, it really is a general! There was no monument on the grave
from which the obsequious voice came, there was only a tombstone. He must
have been a fresh arrival. From his voice he was a lower court councillor.

"Oh-ho-ho-ho!" I heard in a new voice a dozen yards from the general's
resting-place, coming from quite a fresh grave. The voice belonged to a man
and a plebeian, mawkish with its affectation of religious fervour.
"Oh-ho-ho-ho!"

"Oh, here he is hiccupping again!" cried the haughty and disdainful voice
of an irritated lady, apparently of the highest society. "It is an
affliction to be by this shopkeeper!"

"I didn't hiccup; why, I've had nothing to eat. It's simply my nature.
Really, madam, you don't seem able to get rid of your caprices here."

"Then why did you come and lie down here?"

"They put me here, my wife and little children put me here, I did not lie
down here of myself. The mystery of death! And I would not have lain down
beside you not for any money; I lie here as befitting my fortune, judging
by the price. For we can always do that--pay for a tomb of the third
grade."

"You made money, I suppose? You fleeced people?"

"Fleece you, indeed! We haven't seen the colour of your money since
January. There's a little bill against you at the shop."

"Well, that's really stupid; to try and recover debts here is too stupid,
to my thinking! Go to the surface. Ask my niece--she is my heiress."

"There's no asking any one now, and no going anywhere. We have both reached
our limit and, before the judgment-seat of God, are equal in our sins."

"In our sins," the lady mimicked him contemptuously. "Don't dare to speak
to me."

"Oh-ho-ho-ho!"

"You see, the shopkeeper obeys the lady, your Excellency."

"Why shouldn't he?"

"Why, your Excellency, because, as we all know, things are different here."

"Different? How?"

"We are dead, so to speak, your Excellency."

"Oh, yes! But still...."

Well, this is an entertainment, it is a fine show, I must say! If it has
come to this down here, what can one expect on the surface? But what a
queer business! I went on listening, however, though with extreme
indignation.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Yes, I should like a taste of life! Yes, you know ... I should like a
taste of life." I heard a new voice suddenly somewhere in the space between
the general and the irritable lady.

"Do you hear, your Excellency, our friend is at the same game again. For
three days at a time he says nothing, and then he bursts out with 'I should
like a taste of life, yes, a taste of life!' And with such appetite,
he-he!"

"And such frivolity."

"It gets hold of him, your Excellency, and do you know, he is growing
sleepy, quite sleepy--he has been here since April; and then all of a
sudden 'I should like a taste of life!'"

"It is rather dull, though," observed his Excellency.

"It is, your Excellency. Shall we tease Avdotya Ignatyevna again, he-he?"

"No, spare me, please. I can't endure that quarrelsome virago."

"And I can't endure either of you," cried the virago disdainfully. "You are
both of you bores and can't tell me anything ideal. I know one little story
about you, your Excellency--don't turn up your nose, please--how a
man-servant swept you out from under a married couple's bed one morning."

"Nasty woman," the general muttered through his teeth.

"Avdotya Ignatyevna, ma'am," the shopkeeper wailed suddenly again, "my dear
lady, don't be angry, but tell me, am I going through the ordeal by torment
now, or is it something else?"

"Ah, he is at it again, as I expected! For there's a smell from him which
means he is turning round!"

"I am not turning round, ma'am, and there's no particular smell from me,
for I've kept my body whole as it should be, while you're regularly high.
For the smell is really horrible even for a place like this. I don't speak
of it, merely from politeness."

"Ah, you horrid, insulting wretch! He positively stinks and talks about
me."

"Oh-ho-ho-ho! If only the time for my requiem would come quickly: I should
hear their tearful voices over my head, my wife's lament and my children's
soft weeping!..."

"Well, that's a thing to fret for! They'll stuff themselves with funeral
rice and go home.... Oh, I wish somebody would wake up!"

"Avdotya Ignatyevna," said the insinuating government clerk, "wait a bit,
the new arrivals will speak."

"And are there any young people among them?"

"Yes, there are, Avdotya Ignatyevna. There are some not more than lads."

"Oh, how welcome that would be!"

"Haven't they begun yet?" inquired his Excellency.

"Even those who came the day before yesterday haven't awakened yet, your
Excellency. As you know, they sometimes don't speak for a week. It's a good
job that to-day and yesterday and the day before they brought a whole lot.
As it is, they are all last year's for seventy feet round."

"Yes, it will be interesting."

"Yes, your Excellency, they buried Tarasevitch, the privy councillor,
to-day. I knew it from the voices. I know his nephew, he helped to lower
the coffin just now."

"Hm, where is he, then?"

"Five steps from you, your Excellency, on the left.... Almost at your feet.
You should make his acquaintance, your Excellency."

"Hm, no--it's not for me to make advances."

"Oh, he will begin of himself, your Excellency. He will be flattered. Leave
it to me, your Excellency, and I...."

"Oh, oh! ... What is happening to me?" croaked the frightened voice of a
new arrival.

"A new arrival, your Excellency, a new arrival, thank God! And how quick
he's been! Sometimes they don't say a word for a week."

"Oh, I believe it's a young man!" Avdotya Ignatyevna cried shrilly.

"I ... I ... it was a complication, and so sudden!" faltered the young man
again. "Only the evening before, Schultz said to me, 'There's a
complication,' and I died suddenly before morning. Oh! oh!"

"Well, there's no help for it, young man," the general observed graciously,
evidently pleased at a new arrival. "You must be comforted. You are kindly
welcome to our Vale of Jehoshaphat, so to call it. We are kind-hearted
people, you will come to know us and appreciate us. Major-General Vassili
Vassilitch Pervoyedov, at your service."

"Oh, no, no! Certainly not! I was at Schultz's; I had a complication, you
know, at first it was my chest and a cough, and then I caught a cold: my
lungs and influenza ... and all of a sudden, quite unexpectedly ... the
worst of all was its being so unexpected."

"You say it began with the chest," the government clerk put in suavely, as
though he wished to reassure the new arrival.

"Yes, my chest and catarrh and then no catarrh, but still the chest, and I
couldn't breathe ... and you know...."

"I know, I know. But if it was the chest you ought to have gone to Ecke and
not to Schultz."

"You know, I kept meaning to go to Botkin's, and all at once...."

"Botkin is quite prohibitive," observed the general.

"Oh, no, he is not forbidding at all; I've heard he is so attentive and
foretells everything beforehand."

"His Excellency was referring to his fees," the government clerk corrected
him.

"Oh, not at all, he only asks three roubles, and he makes such an
examination, and gives you a prescription ... and I was very anxious to see
him, for I have been told.... Well, gentlemen, had I better go to Ecke or
to Botkin?"

"What? To whom?" The general's corpse shook with agreeable laughter. The
government clerk echoed it in falsetto.

"Dear boy, dear, delightful boy, how I love you!" Avdotya Ignatyevna
squealed ecstatically. "I wish they had put some one like you next to me."

No, that was too much! And these were the dead of our times! Still, I ought
to listen to more and not be in too great a hurry to draw conclusions. That
snivelling new arrival--I remember him just now in his coffin--had the
expression of a frightened chicken, the most revolting expression in the
world! However, let us wait and see.

       *       *       *       *       *

But what happened next was such a Bedlam that I could not keep it all in my
memory. For a great many woke up at once; an official--a civil
councillor--woke up, and began discussing at once the project of a new
sub-committee in a government department and of the probable transfer of
various functionaries in connection with the sub-committee--which very
greatly interested the general. I must confess I learnt a great deal that
was new myself, so much so that I marvelled at the channels by which one
may sometimes in the metropolis learn government news. Then an engineer
half woke up, but for a long time muttered absolute nonsense, so that our
friends left off worrying him and let him lie till he was ready. At last
the distinguished lady who had been buried in the morning under the
catafalque showed symptoms of the reanimation of the tomb. Lebeziatnikov
(for the obsequious lower court councillor whom I detested and who lay
beside General Pervoyedov was called, it appears, Lebeziatnikov) became
much excited, and surprised that they were all waking up so soon this time.
I must own I was surprised too; though some of those who woke had been
buried for three days, as, for instance, a very young girl of sixteen who
kept giggling ... giggling in a horrible and predatory way.

"Your Excellency, privy councillor Tarasevitch is waking!" Lebeziatnikov
announced with extreme fussiness.

"Eh? What?" the privy councillor, waking up suddenly, mumbled, with a lisp
of disgust. There was a note of ill-humoured peremptoriness in the sound of
his voice.

I listened with curiosity--for during the last few days I had heard
something about Tarasevitch--shocking and upsetting in the extreme.

"It's I, your Excellency, so far only I."

"What is your petition? What do you want?"

"Merely to inquire after your Excellency's health; in these unaccustomed
surroundings every one feels at first, as it were, oppressed.... General
Pervoyedov wishes to have the honour of making your Excellency's
acquaintance, and hopes...."

"I've never heard of him."

"Surely, your Excellency! General Pervoyedov, Vassili Vassilitch...."

"Are you General Pervoyedov?"

"No, your Excellency, I am only the lower court councillor Lebeziatnikov,
at your service, but General Pervoyedov...."

"Nonsense! And I beg you to leave me alone."

"Let him be." General Pervoyedov at last himself checked with dignity the
disgusting officiousness of his sycophant in the grave.

"He is not fully awake, your Excellency, you must consider that; it's the
novelty of it all. When he is fully awake he will take it differently."

"Let him be," repeated the general.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Vassili Vassilitch! Hey, your Excellency!" a perfectly new voice shouted
loudly and aggressively from close beside Avdotya Ignatyevna. It was a
voice of gentlemanly insolence, with the languid pronunciation now
fashionable and an arrogant drawl. "I've been watching you all for the last
two hours. Do you remember me, Vassili Vassilitch? My name is Klinevitch,
we met at the Volokonskys' where you, too, were received as a guest, I am
sure I don't know why."

"What, Count Pyotr Petrovitch?... Can it be really you ... and at such an
early age? How sorry I am to hear it."

"Oh, I am sorry myself, though I really don't mind, and I want to amuse
myself as far as I can everywhere. And I am not a count but a baron, only a
baron. We are only a set of scurvy barons, risen from being flunkeys, but
why I don't know and I don't care. I am only a scoundrel of the
pseudo-aristocratic society, and I am regarded as 'a charming _polis-son_.'
My father is a wretched little general, and my mother was at one time
received _en haut lieu_. With the help of the Jew Zifel I forged fifty
thousand rouble notes last year and then I informed against him, while
Julie Charpentier de Lusignan carried off the money to Bordeaux. And only
fancy, I was engaged to be married--to a girl still at school, three months
under sixteen, with a dowry of ninety thousand. Avdotya Ignatyevna, do you
remember how you seduced me fifteen years ago when I was a boy of fourteen
in the Corps des Pages?"

"Ah, that's you, you rascal! Well, you are a godsend, anyway, for here...."

"You were mistaken in suspecting your neighbour, the business gentleman,
of unpleasant fragrance.... I said nothing, but I laughed. The stench came
from me: they had to bury me in a nailed-up coffin."

"Ugh, you horrid creature! Still, I am glad you are here; you can't imagine
the lack of life and wit here."

"Quite so, quite so, and I intend to start here something original. Your
Excellency--I don't mean you, Pervoyedov--your Excellency the other one,
Tarasevitch, the privy councillor! Answer! I am Klinevitch, who took you to
Mlle. Furie in Lent, do you hear?"

"I do, Klinevitch, and I am delighted, and trust me...."

"I wouldn't trust you with a halfpenny, and I don't care. I simply want to
kiss you, dear old man, but luckily I can't. Do you know, gentlemen, what
this _grand-père's_ little game was? He died three or four days ago, and
would you believe it, he left a deficit of four hundred thousand government
money from the fund for widows and orphans. He was the sole person in
control of it for some reason, so that his accounts were not audited for
the last eight years. I can fancy what long faces they all have now, and
what they call him. It's a delectable thought, isn't it? I have been
wondering for the last year how a wretched old man of seventy, gouty and
rheumatic, succeeded in preserving the physical energy for his
debaucheries--and now the riddle is solved! Those widows and orphans--the
very thought of them must have egged him on! I knew about it long ago, I
was the only one who did know; it was Julie told me, and as soon as I
discovered it, I attacked him in a friendly way at once in Easter week:
'Give me twenty-five thousand, if you don't they'll look into your accounts
to-morrow.' And just fancy, he had only thirteen thousand left then, so it
seems it was very apropos his dying now. _Grand-père, grand-père_, do you
hear?"

"_Cher_ Klinevitch, I quite agree with you, and there was no need for
you ... to go into such details. Life is so full of suffering and
torment and so little to make up for it ... that I wanted at last to be
at rest, and so far as I can see I hope to get all I can from here too."

"I bet that he has already sniffed Katiche Berestov!"

"Who? What Katiche?" There was a rapacious quiver in the old man's voice.

"A-ah, what Katiche? Why, here on the left, five paces from me and ten from
you. She has been here for five days, and if only you knew, _grand-père_,
what a little wretch she is! Of good family and breeding and a monster, a
regular monster! I did not introduce her to any one there, I was the only
one who knew her.... Katiche, answer!"

"He-he-he!" the girl responded with a jangling laugh, in which there was a
note of something as sharp as the prick of a needle. "He-he-he!"

"And a little blonde?" the _grand-père_ faltered, drawling out the
syllables.

"He-he-he!"

"I ... have long ... I have long," the old man faltered breathlessly,
"cherished the dream of a little fair thing of fifteen and just in such
surroundings."

"Ach, the monster!" cried Avdotya Ignatyevna.

"Enough!" Klinevitch decided. "I see there is excellent material. We shall
soon arrange things better. The great thing is to spend the rest of our
time cheerfully; but what time? Hey, you, government clerk, Lebeziatnikov
or whatever it is, I hear that's your name!"

"Semyon Yevseitch Lebeziatnikov, lower court councillor, at your service,
very, very, very much delighted to meet you."

"I don't care whether you are delighted or not, but you seem to know
everything here. Tell me first of all how it is we can talk? I've been
wondering ever since yesterday. We are dead and yet we are talking and seem
to be moving--and yet we are not talking and not moving. What jugglery is
this?"

"If you want an explanation, baron, Platon Nikolaevitch could give you one
better than I."

"What Platon Nikolaevitch is that? To the point. Don't beat about the
bush."

"Platon Nikolaevitch is our home-grown philosopher, scientist and Master of
Arts. He has brought out several philosophical works, but for the last
three months he has been getting quite drowsy, and there is no stirring him
up now. Once a week he mutters something utterly irrelevant."

"To the point, to the point!"

"He explains all this by the simplest fact, namely, that when we were
living on the surface we mistakenly thought that death there was death. The
body revives, as it were, here, the remains of life are concentrated, but
only in consciousness. I don't know how to express it, but life goes on, as
it were, by inertia. In his opinion everything is concentrated somewhere in
consciousness and goes on for two or three months ... sometimes even for
half a year.... There is one here, for instance, who is almost completely
decomposed, but once every six weeks he suddenly utters one word, quite
senseless of course, about some _bobok_,[1] 'Bobok, bobok,' but you see
that an imperceptible speck of life is still warm within him."

[Footnote 1: _i. e._ small bean.]

"It's rather stupid. Well, and how is it I have no sense of smell and yet I
feel there's a stench?"

"That ... he-he.... Well, on that point our philosopher is a bit foggy.
It's apropos of smell, he said, that the stench one perceives here is, so
to speak, moral--he-he! It's the stench of the soul, he says, that in these
two or three months it may have time to recover itself ... and this is, so
to speak, the last mercy.... Only, I think, baron, that these are mystic
ravings very excusable in his position...."

"Enough; all the rest of it, I am sure, is nonsense. The great thing is
that we have two or three months more of life and then--bobok! I propose
to spend these two months as agreeably as possible, and so to arrange
everything on a new basis. Gentlemen! I propose to cast aside all shame."

"Ah, let us cast aside all shame, let us!" many voices could be heard
saying; and strange to say, several new voices were audible, which must
have belonged to others newly awakened. The engineer, now fully awake,
boomed out his agreement with peculiar delight. The girl Katiche giggled
gleefully.

"Oh, how I long to cast off all shame!" Avdotya Ignatyevna exclaimed
rapturously.

"I say, if Avdotya Ignatyevna wants to cast off all shame...."

"No, no, no, Klinevitch, I was ashamed up there all the same, but here I
should like to cast off shame, I should like it awfully."

"I understand, Klinevitch," boomed the engineer, "that you want to
rearrange life here on new and rational principles."

"Oh, I don't care a hang about that! For that we'll wait for Kudeyarov who
was brought here yesterday. When he wakes he'll tell you all about it. He
is such a personality, such a titanic personality! To-morrow they'll bring
along another natural scientist, I believe, an officer for certain, and
three or four days later a journalist, and, I believe, his editor with him.
But deuce take them all, there will be a little group of us anyway, and
things will arrange themselves. Though meanwhile I don't want us to be
telling lies. That's all I care about, for that is one thing that matters.
One cannot exist on the surface without lying, for life and lying are
synonymous, but here we will amuse ourselves by not lying. Hang it all, the
grave has some value after all! We'll all tell our stories aloud, and we
won't be ashamed of anything. First of all I'll tell you about myself. I am
one of the predatory kind, you know. All that was bound and held in check
by rotten cords up there on the surface. Away with cords and let us spend
these two months in shameless truthfulness! Let us strip and be naked!"

"Let us be naked, let us be naked!" cried all the voices.

"I long to be naked, I long to be," Avdotya Ignatyevna shrilled.

"Ah ... ah, I see we shall have fun here; I don't want Ecke after all."

"No, I tell you. Give me a taste of life!"

"He-he-he!" giggled Katiche.

"The great thing is that no one can interfere with us, and though I see
Pervoyedov is in a temper, he can't reach me with his hand. _Grand-père_,
do you agree?"

"I fully agree, fully, and with the utmost satisfaction, but on condition
that Katiche is the first to give us her biography."

"I protest! I protest with all my heart!" General Pervoyedov brought out
firmly.

"Your Excellency!" the scoundrel Lebeziatnikov persuaded him in a murmur of
fussy excitement, "your Excellency, it will be to our advantage to agree.
Here, you see, there's this girl's ... and all their little affairs."

"There's the girl, it's true, but...."

"It's to our advantage, your Excellency, upon my word it is! If only as an
experiment, let us try it...."

"Even in the grave they won't let us rest in peace."

"In the first place, General, you were playing preference in the grave, and
in the second we don't care a hang about you," drawled Klinevitch.

"Sir, I beg you not to forget yourself."

"What? Why, you can't get at me, and I can tease you from here as though
you were Julie's lapdog. And another thing, gentlemen, how is he a general
here? He was a general there, but here is mere refuse."

"No, not mere refuse.... Even here...."

"Here you will rot in the grave and six brass buttons will be all that will
be left of you."

"Bravo, Klinevitch, ha-ha-ha!" roared voices.

"I have served my sovereign.... I have the sword...."

"Your sword is only fit to prick mice, and you never drew it even for
that."

"That makes no difference; I formed a part of the whole."

"There are all sorts of parts in a whole."

"Bravo, Klinevitch, bravo! Ha-ha-ha!"

"I don't understand what the sword stands for," boomed the engineer.

"We shall run away from the Prussians like mice, they'll crush us to
powder!" cried a voice in the distance that was unfamiliar to me, that was
positively spluttering with glee.

"The sword, sir, is an honour," the general cried, but only I heard him.
There arose a prolonged and furious roar, clamour, and hubbub, and only the
hysterically impatient squeals of Avdotya Ignatyevna were audible.

"But do let us make haste! Ah, when are we going to begin to cast off all
shame!"

"Oh-ho-ho!... The soul does in truth pass through torments!" exclaimed the
voice of the plebeian, "and ..."

And here I suddenly sneezed. It happened suddenly and unintentionally, but
the effect was striking: all became as silent as one expects it to be in a
churchyard, it all vanished like a dream. A real silence of the tomb set
in. I don't believe they were ashamed on account of my presence: they had
made up their minds to cast off all shame! I waited five minutes--not a
word, not a sound. It cannot be supposed that they were afraid of my
informing the police; for what could the police do to them? I must conclude
that they had some secret unknown to the living, which they carefully
concealed from every mortal.

"Well, my dears," I thought, "I shall visit you again." And with those
words, I left the cemetery.

No, that I cannot admit; no, I really cannot! The _bobok_ case does not
trouble me (so that is what that bobok signified!)

Depravity in such a place, depravity of the last aspirations, depravity of
sodden and rotten corpses--and not even sparing the last moments of
consciousness! Those moments have been granted, vouchsafed to them, and ...
and, worst of all, in such a place! No, that I cannot admit.

I shall go to other tombs, I shall listen everywhere. Certainly one ought
to listen everywhere and not merely at one spot in order to form an idea.
Perhaps one may come across something reassuring.

But I shall certainly go back to those. They promised their biographies and
anecdotes of all sorts. Tfoo! But I shall go, I shall certainly go; it is a
question of conscience!

I shall take it to the _Citizen_; the editor there has had his portrait
exhibited too. Maybe he will print it.

THE DREAM OF A RIDICULOUS MAN

I

I am a ridiculous person. Now they call me a madman. That would be a
promotion if it were not that I remain as ridiculous in their eyes as
before. But now I do not resent it, they are all dear to me now, even when
they laugh at me--and, indeed, it is just then that they are particularly
dear to me. I could join in their laughter--not exactly at myself, but
through affection for them, if I did not feel so sad as I look at them. Sad
because they do not know the truth and I do know it. Oh, how hard it is to
be the only one who knows the truth! But they won't understand that. No,
they won't understand it.

In old days I used to be miserable at seeming ridiculous. Not seeming, but
being. I have always been ridiculous, and I have known it, perhaps, from
the hour I was born. Perhaps from the time I was seven years old I knew I
was ridiculous. Afterwards I went to school, studied at the university,
and, do you know, the more I learned, the more thoroughly I understood that
I was ridiculous. So that it seemed in the end as though all the sciences I
studied at the university existed only to prove and make evident to me as I
went more deeply into them that I was ridiculous. It was the same with life
as it was with science. With every year the same consciousness of the
ridiculous figure I cut in every relation grew and strengthened. Every one
always laughed at me. But not one of them knew or guessed that if there
were one man on earth who knew better than anybody else that I was absurd,
it was myself, and what I resented most of all was that they did not know
that. But that was my own fault; I was so proud that nothing would have
ever induced me to tell it to any one. This pride grew in me with the
years; and if it had happened that I allowed myself to confess to any one
that I was ridiculous, I believe that I should have blown out my brains the
same evening. Oh, how I suffered in my early youth from the fear that I
might give way and confess it to my schoolfellows. But since I grew to
manhood, I have for some unknown reason become calmer, though I realised my
awful characteristic more fully every year. I say "unknown," for to this
day I cannot tell why it was. Perhaps it was owing to the terrible misery
that was growing in my soul through something which was of more consequence
than anything else about me: that something was the conviction that had
come upon me that _nothing in the world mattered_. I had long had an
inkling of it, but the full realisation came last year almost suddenly. I
suddenly felt that it was all the same to me whether the world existed or
whether there had never been anything at all: I began to feel with all my
being that there was _nothing existing_. At first I fancied that many
things had existed in the past, but afterwards I guessed that there never
had been anything in the past either, but that it had only seemed so for
some reason. Little by little I guessed that there would be nothing in the
future either. Then I left off being angry with people and almost ceased to
notice them. Indeed this showed itself even in the pettiest trifles: I
used, for instance, to knock against people in the street. And not so much
from being lost in thought: what had I to think about? I had almost given
up thinking by that time; nothing mattered to me. If at least I had solved
my problems! Oh, I had not settled one of them, and how many they were! But
I gave up caring about anything, and all the problems disappeared.

And it was after that that I found out the truth. I learnt the truth last
November--on the third of November, to be precise--and I remember every
instant since. It was a gloomy evening, one of the gloomiest possible
evenings. I was going home at about eleven o'clock, and I remember that I
thought that the evening could not be gloomier. Even physically. Rain had
been falling all day, and it had been a cold, gloomy, almost menacing rain,
with, I remember, an unmistakable spite against mankind. Suddenly between
ten and eleven it had stopped, and was followed by a horrible dampness,
colder and damper than the rain, and a sort of steam was rising from
everything, from every stone in the street, and from every by-lane if one
looked down it as far as one could. A thought suddenly occurred to me, that
if all the street lamps had been put out it would have been less cheerless,
that the gas made one's heart sadder because it lighted it all up. I had
had scarcely any dinner that day, and had been spending the evening with an
engineer, and two other friends had been there also. I sat silent--I fancy
I bored them. They talked of something rousing and suddenly they got
excited over it. But they did not really care, I could see that, and only
made a show of being excited. I suddenly said as much to them. "My
friends," I said, "you really do not care one way or the other." They were
not offended, but they all laughed at me. That was because I spoke without
any note of reproach, simply because it did not matter to me. They saw it
did not, and it amused them.

As I was thinking about the gas lamps in the street I looked up at the sky.
The sky was horribly dark, but one could distinctly see tattered clouds,
and between them fathomless black patches. Suddenly I noticed in one of
these patches a star, and began watching it intently. That was because that
star gave me an idea: I decided to kill myself that night. I had firmly
determined to do so two months before, and poor as I was, I bought a
splendid revolver that very day, and loaded it. But two months had passed
and it was still lying in my drawer; I was so utterly indifferent that I
wanted to seize a moment when I would not be so indifferent--why, I don't
know. And so for two months every night that I came home I thought I would
shoot myself. I kept waiting for the right moment. And so now this star
gave me a thought. I made up my mind that it should certainly be that
night. And why the star gave me the thought I don't know.

And just as I was looking at the sky, this little girl took me by the
elbow. The street was empty, and there was scarcely any one to be seen. A
cabman was sleeping in the distance in his cab. It was a child of eight
with a kerchief on her head, wearing nothing but a wretched little dress
all soaked with rain, but I noticed particularly her wet broken shoes and I
recall them now. They caught my eye particularly. She suddenly pulled me by
the elbow and called me. She was not weeping, but was spasmodically crying
out some words which she could not utter properly, because she was
shivering and shuddering all over. She was in terror about something, and
kept crying, "Mammy, mammy!" I turned facing her, I did not say a word and
went on; but she ran, pulling at me, and there was that note in her voice
which in frightened children means despair. I know that sound. Though she
did not articulate the words, I understood that her mother was dying, or
that something of the sort was happening to them, and that she had run out
to call some one, to find something to help her mother. I did not go with
her; on the contrary, I had an impulse to drive her away. I told her first
to go to a policeman. But clasping her hands, she ran beside me sobbing and
gasping, and would not leave me. Then I stamped my foot, and shouted at
her. She called out "Sir! sir!..." but suddenly abandoned me and rushed
headlong across the road. Some other passer-by appeared there, and she
evidently flew from me to him.

I mounted up to my fifth storey. I have a room in a flat where there are
other lodgers. My room is small and poor, with a garret window in the
shape of a semicircle. I have a sofa covered with American leather, a table
with books on it, two chairs and a comfortable arm-chair, as old as old can
be, but of the good old-fashioned shape. I sat down, lighted the candle,
and began thinking. In the room next to mine, through the partition wall, a
perfect Bedlam was going on. It had been going on for the last three days.
A retired captain lived there, and he had half a dozen visitors, gentlemen
of doubtful reputation, drinking vodka and playing _stoss_ with old cards.
The night before there had been a fight, and I know that two of them had
been for a long time engaged in dragging each other about by the hair. The
landlady wanted to complain, but she was in abject terror of the captain.
There was only one other lodger in the flat, a thin little regimental lady,
on a visit to Petersburg, with three little children who had been taken ill
since they came into the lodgings. Both she and her children were in mortal
fear of the captain, and lay trembling and crossing themselves all night,
and the youngest child had a sort of fit from fright. That captain, I know
for a fact, sometimes stops people in the Nevsky Prospect and begs. They
won't take him into the service, but strange to say (that's why I am
telling this), all this month that the captain has been here his behaviour
has caused me no annoyance. I have, of course, tried to avoid his
acquaintance from the very beginning, and he, too, was bored with me from
the first; but I never care how much they shout the other side of the
partition nor how many of them there are in there: I sit up all night and
forget them so completely that I do not even hear them. I stay awake till
daybreak, and have been going on like that for the last year. I sit up all
night in my arm-chair at the table, doing nothing. I only read by day. I
sit--don't even think; ideas of a sort wander through my mind and I let
them come and go as they will. A whole candle is burnt every night. I sat
down quietly at the table, took out the revolver and put it down before
me. When I had put it down I asked myself, I remember, "Is that so?" and
answered with complete conviction, "It is." That is, I shall shoot myself.
I knew that I should shoot myself that night for certain, but how much
longer I should go on sitting at the table I did not know. And no doubt I
should have shot myself if it had not been for that little girl.

II

You see, though nothing mattered to me, I could feel pain, for instance. If
any one had struck me it would have hurt me. It was the same morally: if
anything very pathetic happened, I should have felt pity just as I used to
do in old days when there were things in life that did matter to me. I had
felt pity that evening. I should have certainly helped a child. Why, then,
had I not helped the little girl? Because of an idea that occurred to me at
the time: when she was calling and pulling at me, a question suddenly arose
before me and I could not settle it. The question was an idle one, but I
was vexed. I was vexed at the reflection that if I were going to make an
end of myself that night, nothing in life ought to have mattered to me. Why
was it that all at once I did not feel that nothing mattered and was sorry
for the little girl? I remember that I was very sorry for her, so much so
that I felt a strange pang, quite incongruous in my position. Really I do
not know better how to convey my fleeting sensation at the moment, but the
sensation persisted at home when I was sitting at the table, and I was very
much irritated as I had not been for a long time past. One reflection
followed another. I saw clearly that so long as I was still a human being
and not nothingness, I was alive and so could suffer, be angry and feel
shame at my actions. So be it. But if I am going to kill myself, in two
hours, say, what is the little girl to me and what have I to do with shame
or with anything else in the world? I shall turn into nothing, absolutely
nothing. And can it really be true that the consciousness that I shall
_completely_ cease to exist immediately and so everything else will cease
to exist, does not in the least affect my feeling of pity for the child nor
the feeling of shame after a contemptible action? I stamped and shouted at
the unhappy child as though to say--not only I feel no pity, but even if I
behave inhumanly and contemptibly, I am free to, for in another two hours
everything will be extinguished. Do you believe that that was why I shouted
that? I am almost convinced of it now. It seemed clear to me that life and
the world somehow depended upon me now. I may almost say that the world now
seemed created for me alone: if I shot myself the world would cease to be
at least for me. I say nothing of its being likely that nothing will exist
for any one when I am gone, and that as soon as my consciousness is
extinguished the whole world will vanish too and become void like a
phantom, as a mere appurtenance of my consciousness, for possibly all this
world and all these people are only me myself. I remember that as I sat and
reflected, I turned all these new questions that swarmed one after another
quite the other way, and thought of something quite new. For instance, a
strange reflection suddenly occurred to me, that if I had lived before on
the moon or on Mars and there had committed the most disgraceful and
dishonourable action and had there been put to such shame and ignominy as
one can only conceive and realise in dreams, in nightmares, and if, finding
myself afterwards on earth, I were able to retain the memory of what I had
done on the other planet and at the same time knew that I should never,
under any circumstances, return there, then looking from the earth to the
moon--_should I care or not_? Should I feel shame for that action or not?
These were idle and superfluous questions for the revolver was already
lying before me, and I knew in every fibre of my being that it would happen
for certain, but they excited me and I raged. I could not die now without
having first settled something. In short, the child had saved me, for I
put off my pistol shot for the sake of these questions. Meanwhile the
clamour had begun to subside in the captain's room: they had finished their
game, were settling down to sleep, and meanwhile were grumbling and
languidly winding up their quarrels. At that point I suddenly fell asleep
in my chair at the table--a thing which had never happened to me before. I
dropped asleep quite unawares.

Dreams, as we all know, are very queer things: some parts are presented
with appalling vividness, with details worked up with the elaborate finish
of jewellery, while others one gallops through, as it were, without
noticing them at all, as, for instance, through space and time. Dreams seem
to be spurred on not by reason but by desire, not by the head but by the
heart, and yet what complicated tricks my reason has played sometimes in
dreams, what utterly incomprehensible things happen to it! My brother died
five years ago, for instance. I sometimes dream of him; he takes part in my
affairs, we are very much interested, and yet all through my dream I quite
know and remember that my brother is dead and buried. How is it that I am
not surprised that, though he is dead, he is here beside me and working
with me? Why is it that my reason fully accepts it? But enough. I will
begin about my dream. Yes, I dreamed a dream, my dream of the third of
November. They tease me now, telling me it was only a dream. But does it
matter whether it was a dream or reality, if the dream made known to me the
truth? If once one has recognised the truth and seen it, you know that it
is the truth and that there is no other and there cannot be, whether you
are asleep or awake. Let it be a dream, so be it, but that real life of
which you make so much I had meant to extinguish by suicide, and my dream,
my dream--oh, it revealed to me a different life, renewed, grand and full
of power!

Listen.

III

I have mentioned that I dropped asleep unawares and even seemed to be still
reflecting on the same subjects. I suddenly dreamt that I picked up the
revolver and aimed it straight at my heart--my heart, and not my head; and
I had determined beforehand to fire at my head, at my right temple. After
aiming at my chest I waited a second or two, and suddenly my candle, my
table, and the wall in front of me began moving and heaving. I made haste
to pull the trigger.

In dreams you sometimes fall from a height, or are stabbed, or beaten, but
you never feel pain unless, perhaps, you really bruise yourself against the
bedstead, then you feel pain and almost always wake up from it. It was the
same in my dream. I did not feel any pain, but it seemed as though with my
shot everything within me was shaken and everything was suddenly dimmed,
and it grew horribly black around me. I seemed to be blinded and benumbed,
and I was lying on something hard, stretched on my back; I saw nothing, and
could not make the slightest movement. People were walking and shouting
around me, the captain bawled, the landlady shrieked--and suddenly another
break and I was being carried in a closed coffin. And I felt how the coffin
was shaking and reflected upon it, and for the first time the idea struck
me that I was dead, utterly dead, I knew it and had no doubt of it, I could
neither see nor move and yet I was feeling and reflecting. But I was soon
reconciled to the position, and as one usually does in a dream, accepted
the facts without disputing them.

And now I was buried in the earth. They all went away, I was left alone,
utterly alone. I did not move. Whenever before I had imagined being buried
the one sensation I associated with the grave was that of damp and cold. So
now I felt that I was very cold, especially the tips of my toes, but I felt
nothing else.

I lay still, strange to say I expected nothing, accepting without dispute
that a dead man had nothing to expect. But it was damp. I don't know how
long a time passed--whether an hour, or several days, or many days. But all
at once a drop of water fell on my closed left eye, making its way through
a coffin lid; it was followed a minute later by a second, then a minute
later by a third--and so on, regularly every minute. There was a sudden
glow of profound indignation in my heart, and I suddenly felt in it a pang
of physical pain. "That's my wound," I thought; "that's the bullet...." And
drop after drop every minute kept falling on my closed eyelid. And all at
once, not with my voice, but with my whole being, I called upon the power
that was responsible for all that was happening to me:

"Whoever you may be, if you exist, and if anything more rational than what
is happening here is possible, suffer it to be here now. But if you are
revenging yourself upon me for my senseless suicide by the hideousness and
absurdity of this subsequent existence, then let me tell you that no
torture could ever equal the contempt which I shall go on dumbly feeling,
though my martyrdom may last a million years!"

I made this appeal and held my peace. There was a full minute of unbroken
silence and again another drop fell, but I knew with infinite unshakable
certainty that everything would change immediately. And behold my grave
suddenly was rent asunder, that is, I don't know whether it was opened or
dug up, but I was caught up by some dark and unknown being and we found
ourselves in space. I suddenly regained my sight. It was the dead of night,
and never, never had there been such darkness. We were flying through space
far away from the earth. I did not question the being who was taking me; I
was proud and waited. I assured myself that I was not afraid, and was
thrilled with ecstasy at the thought that I was not afraid. I do not know
how long we were flying, I cannot imagine; it happened as it always does in
dreams when you skip over space and time, and the laws of thought and
existence, and only pause upon the points for which the heart yearns. I
remember that I suddenly saw in the darkness a star. "Is that Sirius?" I
asked impulsively, though I had not meant to ask any questions.

"No, that is the star you saw between the clouds when you were coming
home," the being who was carrying me replied.

I knew that it had something like a human face. Strange to say, I did not
like that being, in fact I felt an intense aversion for it. I had expected
complete non-existence, and that was why I had put a bullet through my
heart. And here I was in the hands of a creature not human, of course, but
yet living, existing. "And so there is life beyond the grave," I thought
with the strange frivolity one has in dreams. But in its inmost depth my
heart remained unchanged. "And if I have got to exist again," I thought,
"and live once more under the control of some irresistible power, I won't
be vanquished and humiliated."

"You know that I am afraid of you and despise me for that," I said suddenly
to my companion, unable to refrain from the humiliating question which
implied a confession, and feeling my humiliation stab my heart as with a
pin. He did not answer my question, but all at once I felt that he was not
even despising me, but was laughing at me and had no compassion for me, and
that our journey had an unknown and mysterious object that concerned me
only. Fear was growing in my heart. Something was mutely and painfully
communicated to me from my silent companion, and permeated my whole being.
We were flying through dark, unknown space. I had for some time lost sight
of the constellations familiar to my eyes. I knew that there were stars in
the heavenly spaces the light of which took thousands or millions of years
to reach the earth. Perhaps we were already flying through those spaces. I
expected something with a terrible anguish that tortured my heart. And
suddenly I was thrilled by a familiar feeling that stirred me to the
depths: I suddenly caught sight of our sun! I knew that it could not be
_our_ sun, that gave life to _our_ earth, and that we were an infinite
distance from our sun, but for some reason I knew in my whole being that it
was a sun exactly like ours, a duplicate of it. A sweet, thrilling feeling
resounded with ecstasy in my heart: the kindred power of the same light
which had given me light stirred an echo in my heart and awakened it, and I
had a sensation of life, the old life of the past for the first time since
I had been in the grave.

"But if that is the sun, if that is exactly the same as our sun," I cried,
"where is the earth?"

And my companion pointed to a star twinkling in the distance with an
emerald light. We were flying straight towards it.

"And are such repetitions possible in the universe? Can that be the law of
Nature?... And if that is an earth there, can it be just the same earth as
ours ... just the same, as poor, as unhappy, but precious and beloved for
ever, arousing in the most ungrateful of her children the same poignant
love for her that we feel for our earth?" I cried out, shaken by
irresistible, ecstatic love for the old familiar earth which I had left.
The image of the poor child whom I had repulsed flashed through my mind.

"You shall see it all," answered my companion, and there was a note of
sorrow in his voice.

But we were rapidly approaching the planet. It was growing before my eyes;
I could already distinguish the ocean, the outline of Europe; and suddenly
a feeling of a great and holy jealousy glowed in my heart.

"How can it be repeated and what for? I love and can love only that earth
which I have left, stained with my blood, when, in my ingratitude, I
quenched my life with a bullet in my heart. But I have never, never ceased
to love that earth, and perhaps on the very night I parted from it I loved
it more than ever. Is there suffering upon this new earth? On our earth we
can only love with suffering and through suffering. We cannot love
otherwise, and we know of no other sort of love. I want suffering in order
to love. I long, I thirst, this very instant, to kiss with tears the earth
that I have left, and I don't want, I won't accept life on any other!"

But my companion had already left me. I suddenly, quite without noticing
how, found myself on this other earth, in the bright light of a sunny day,
fair as paradise. I believe I was standing on one of the islands that make
up on our globe the Greek archipelago, or on the coast of the mainland
facing that archipelago. Oh, everything was exactly as it is with us, only
everything seemed to have a festive radiance, the splendour of some great,
holy triumph attained at last. The caressing sea, green as emerald,
splashed softly upon the shore and kissed it with manifest, almost
conscious love. The tall, lovely trees stood in all the glory of their
blossom, and their innumerable leaves greeted me, I am certain, with their
soft, caressing rustle and seemed to articulate words of love. The grass
glowed with bright and fragrant flowers. Birds were flying in flocks in the
air, and perched fearlessly on my shoulders and arms and joyfully struck me
with their darling, fluttering wings. And at last I saw and knew the people
of this happy land. They came to me of themselves, they surrounded me,
kissed me. The children of the sun, the children of their sun--oh, how
beautiful they were! Never had I seen on our own earth such beauty in
mankind. Only perhaps in our children, in their earliest years, one might
find some remote, faint reflection of this beauty. The eyes of these happy
people shone with a clear brightness. Their faces were radiant with the
light of reason and fullness of a serenity that comes of perfect
understanding, but those faces were gay; in their words and voices there
was a note of childlike joy. Oh, from the first moment, from the first
glance at them, I understood it all! It was the earth untarnished by the
Fall; on it lived people who had not sinned. They lived just in such a
paradise as that in which, according to all the legends of mankind, our
first parents lived before they sinned; the only difference was that all
this earth was the same paradise. These people, laughing joyfully, thronged
round me and caressed me; they took me home with them, and each of them
tried to reassure me. Oh, they asked me no questions, but they seemed, I
fancied, to know everything without asking, and they wanted to make haste
and smoothe away the signs of suffering from my face.

IV

And do you know what? Well, granted that it was only a dream, yet the
sensation of the love of those innocent and beautiful people has remained
with me for ever, and I feel as though their love is still flowing out to
me from over there. I have seen them myself, have known them and been
convinced; I loved them, I suffered for them afterwards. Oh, I understood
at once even at the time that in many things I could not understand them at
all; as an up-to-date Russian progressive and contemptible Petersburger, it
struck me as inexplicable that, knowing so much, they had, for instance, no
science like ours. But I soon realised that their knowledge was gained and
fostered by intuitions different from those of us on earth, and that their
aspirations, too, were quite different. They desired nothing and were at
peace; they did not aspire to knowledge of life as we aspire to understand
it, because their lives were full. But their knowledge was higher and
deeper than ours; for our science seeks to explain what life is, aspires to
understand it in order to teach others how to live, while they without
science knew how to live; and that I understood, but I could not understand
their knowledge. They showed me their trees, and I could not understand the
intense love with which they looked at them; it was as though they were
talking with creatures like themselves. And perhaps I shall not be mistaken
if I say that they conversed with them. Yes, they had found their language,
and I am convinced that the trees understood them. They looked at all
Nature like that--at the animals who lived in peace with them and did not
attack them, but loved them, conquered by their love. They pointed to the
stars and told me something about them which I could not understand, but I
am convinced that they were somehow in touch with the stars, not only in
thought, but by some living channel. Oh, these people did not persist in
trying to make me understand them, they loved me without that, but I knew
that they would never understand me, and so I hardly spoke to them about
our earth. I only kissed in their presence the earth on which they lived
and mutely worshipped them themselves. And they saw that and let me worship
them without being abashed at my adoration, for they themselves loved much.
They were not unhappy on my account when at times I kissed their feet with
tears, joyfully conscious of the love with which they would respond to
mine. At times I asked myself with wonder how it was they were able never
to offend a creature like me, and never once to arouse a feeling of
jealousy or envy in me? Often I wondered how it could be that, boastful and
untruthful as I was, I never talked to them of what I knew--of which, of
course, they had no notion--that I was never tempted to do so by a desire
to astonish or even to benefit them.

They were as gay and sportive as children. They wandered about their lovely
woods and copses, they sang their lovely songs; their fare was light--the
fruits of their trees, the honey from their woods, and the milk of the
animals who loved them. The work they did for food and raiment was brief
and not laborious. They loved and begot children, but I never noticed in
them the impulse of that _cruel_ sensuality which overcomes almost every
man on this earth, all and each, and is the source of almost every sin of
mankind on earth. They rejoiced at the arrival of children as new beings to
share their happiness. There was no quarrelling, no jealousy among them,
and they did not even know what the words meant. Their children were the
children of all, for they all made up one family. There was scarcely any
illness among them, though there was death; but their old people died
peacefully, as though falling asleep, giving blessings and smiles to those
who surrounded them to take their last farewell with bright and loving
smiles. I never saw grief or tears on those occasions, but only love, which
reached the point of ecstasy, but a calm ecstasy, made perfect and
contemplative. One might think that they were still in contact with the
departed after death, and that their earthly union was not cut short by
death. They scarcely understood me when I questioned them about
immortality, but evidently they were so convinced of it without reasoning
that it was not for them a question at all. They had no temples, but they
had a real living and uninterrupted sense of oneness with the whole of the
universe; they had no creed, but they had a certain knowledge that when
their earthly joy had reached the limits of earthly nature, then there
would come for them, for the living and for the dead, a still greater
fullness of contact with the whole of the universe. They looked forward to
that moment with joy, but without haste, not pining for it, but seeming to
have a foretaste of it in their hearts, of which they talked to one
another.

In the evening before going to sleep they liked singing in musical and
harmonious chorus. In those songs they expressed all the sensations that
the parting day had given them, sang its glories and took leave of it. They
sang the praises of nature, of the sea, of the woods. They liked making
songs about one another, and praised each other like children; they were
the simplest songs, but they sprang from their hearts and went to one's
heart. And not only in their songs but in all their lives they seemed to
do nothing but admire one another. It was like being in love with each
other, but an all-embracing, universal feeling.

Some of their songs, solemn and rapturous, I scarcely understood at all.
Though I understood the words I could never fathom their full significance.
It remained, as it were, beyond the grasp of my mind, yet my heart
unconsciously absorbed it more and more. I often told them that I had had a
presentiment of it long before, that this joy and glory had come to me on
our earth in the form of a yearning melancholy that at times approached
insufferable sorrow; that I had had a foreknowledge of them all and of
their glory in the dreams of my heart and the visions of my mind; that
often on our earth I could not look at the setting sun without tears ...
that in my hatred for the men of our earth there was always a yearning
anguish: why could I not hate them without loving them? why could I not
help forgiving them? and in my love for them there was a yearning grief:
why could I not love them without hating them? They listened to me, and I
saw they could not conceive what I was saying, but I did not regret that I
had spoken to them of it: I knew that they understood the intensity of my
yearning anguish over those whom I had left. But when they looked at me
with their sweet eyes full of love, when I felt that in their presence my
heart, too, became as innocent and just as theirs, the feeling of the
fullness of life took my breath away, and I worshipped them in silence.

Oh, every one laughs in my face now, and assures me that one cannot dream
of such details as I am telling now, that I only dreamed or felt one
sensation that arose in my heart in delirium and made up the details myself
when I woke up. And when I told them that perhaps it really was so, my God,
how they shouted with laughter in my face, and what mirth I caused! Oh,
yes, of course I was overcome by the mere sensation of my dream, and that
was all that was preserved in my cruelly wounded heart; but the actual
forms and images of my dream, that is, the very ones I really saw at the
very time of my dream, were filled with such harmony, were so lovely and
enchanting and were so actual, that on awakening I was, of course,
incapable of clothing them in our poor language, so that they were bound to
become blurred in my mind; and so perhaps I really was forced afterwards to
make up the details, and so of course to distort them in my passionate
desire to convey some at least of them as quickly as I could. But on the
other hand, how can I help believing that it was all true? It was perhaps a
thousand times brighter, happier and more joyful than I describe it.
Granted that I dreamed it, yet it must have been real. You know, I will
tell you a secret: perhaps it was not a dream at all! For then something
happened so awful, something so horribly true, that it could not have been
imagined in a dream. My heart may have originated the dream, but would my
heart alone have been capable of originating the awful event which happened
to me afterwards? How could I alone have invented it or imagined it in my
dream? Could my petty heart and my fickle, trivial mind have risen to such
a revelation of truth? Oh, judge for yourselves: hitherto I have concealed
it, but now I will tell the truth. The fact is that I ... corrupted them
all!

V

Yes, yes, it ended in my corrupting them all! How it could come to pass I
do not know, but I remember it clearly. The dream embraced thousands of
years and left in me only a sense of the whole. I only know that I was the
cause of their sin and downfall. Like a vile trichina, like a germ of the
plague infecting whole kingdoms, so I contaminated all this earth, so happy
and sinless before my coming. They learnt to lie, grew fond of lying, and
discovered the charm of falsehood. Oh, at first perhaps it began
innocently, with a jest, coquetry, with amorous play, perhaps indeed with a
germ, but that germ of falsity made its way into their hearts and pleased
them. Then sensuality was soon begotten, sensuality begot jealousy,
jealousy--cruelty.... Oh, I don't know, I don't remember; but soon, very
soon the first blood was shed. They marvelled and were horrified, and began
to be split up and divided. They formed into unions, but it was against one
another. Reproaches, upbraidings followed. They came to know shame, and
shame brought them to virtue. The conception of honour sprang up, and every
union began waving its flags. They began torturing animals, and the animals
withdrew from them into the forests and became hostile to them. They began
to struggle for separation, for isolation, for individuality, for mine and
thine. They began to talk in different languages. They became acquainted
with sorrow and loved sorrow; they thirsted for suffering, and said that
truth could only be attained through suffering. Then science appeared. As
they became wicked they began talking of brotherhood and humanitarianism,
and understood those ideas. As they became criminal, they invented justice
and drew up whole legal codes in order to observe it, and to ensure their
being kept, set up a guillotine. They hardly remembered what they had lost,
in fact refused to believe that they had ever been happy and innocent. They
even laughed at the possibility of this happiness in the past, and called
it a dream. They could not even imagine it in definite form and shape, but,
strange and wonderful to relate, though they lost all faith in their past
happiness and called it a legend, they so longed to be happy and innocent
once more that they succumbed to this desire like children, made an idol of
it, set up temples and worshipped their own idea, their own desire; though
at the same time they fully believed that it was unattainable and could not
be realised, yet they bowed down to it and adored it with tears!
Nevertheless, if it could have happened that they had returned to the
innocent and happy condition which they had lost, and if some one had shown
it to them again and had asked them whether they wanted to go back to it,
they would certainly have refused. They answered me:

"We may be deceitful, wicked and unjust, we _know_ it and weep over it, we
grieve over it; we torment and punish ourselves more perhaps than that
merciful Judge Who will judge us and whose Name we know not. But we have
science, and by means of it we shall find the truth and we shall arrive at
it consciously. Knowledge is higher than feeling, the consciousness of life
is higher than life. Science will give us wisdom, wisdom will reveal the
laws, and the knowledge of the laws of happiness is higher than happiness."

That is what they said, and after saying such things every one began to
love himself better than any one else, and indeed they could not do
otherwise. All became so jealous of the rights of their own personality
that they did their very utmost to curtail and destroy them in others, and
made that the chief thing in their lives. Slavery followed, even voluntary
slavery; the weak eagerly submitted to the strong, on condition that the
latter aided them to subdue the still weaker. Then there were saints who
came to these people, weeping, and talked to them of their pride, of their
loss of harmony and due proportion, of their loss of shame. They were
laughed at or pelted with stones. Holy blood was shed on the threshold of
the temples. Then there arose men who began to think how to bring all
people together again, so that everybody, while still loving himself best
of all, might not interfere with others, and all might live together in
something like a harmonious society. Regular wars sprang up over this idea.
All the combatants at the same time firmly believed that science, wisdom
and the instinct of self-preservation would force men at last to unite into
a harmonious and rational society; and so, meanwhile, to hasten matters,
"the wise" endeavoured to exterminate as rapidly as possible all who were
"not wise" and did not understand their idea, that the latter might not
hinder its triumph. But the instinct of self-preservation grew rapidly
weaker; there arose men, haughty and sensual, who demanded all or nothing.
In order to obtain everything they resorted to crime, and if they did not
succeed--to suicide. There arose religions with a cult of non-existence and
self-destruction for the sake of the everlasting peace of annihilation. At
last these people grew weary of their meaningless toil, and signs of
suffering came into their faces, and then they proclaimed that suffering
was a beauty, for in suffering alone was there meaning. They glorified
suffering in their songs. I moved about among them, wringing my hands and
weeping over them, but I loved them perhaps more than in old days when
there was no suffering in their faces and when they were innocent and so
lovely. I loved the earth they had polluted even more than when it had been
a paradise, if only because sorrow had come to it. Alas! I always loved
sorrow and tribulation, but only for myself, for myself; but I wept over
them, pitying them. I stretched out my hands to them in despair, blaming,
cursing and despising myself. I told them that all this was my doing, mine
alone; that it was I had brought them corruption, contamination and
falsity. I besought them to crucify me, I taught them how to make a cross.
I could not kill myself, I had not the strength, but I wanted to suffer at
their hands. I yearned for suffering, I longed that my blood should be
drained to the last drop in these agonies. But they only laughed at me, and
began at last to look upon me as crazy. They justified me, they declared
that they had only got what they wanted themselves, and that all that now
was could not have been otherwise. At last they declared to me that I was
becoming dangerous and that they should lock me up in a madhouse if I did
not hold my tongue. Then such grief took possession of my soul that my
heart was wrung, and I felt as though I were dying; and then ... then I
awoke.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was morning, that is, it was not yet daylight, but about six o'clock. I
woke up in the same arm-chair; my candle had burnt out; every one was
asleep in the captain's room, and there was a stillness all round, rare in
our flat. First of all I leapt up in great amazement: nothing like this had
ever happened to me before, not even in the most trivial detail; I had
never, for instance, fallen asleep like this in my arm-chair. While I was
standing and coming to myself I suddenly caught sight of my revolver lying
loaded, ready--but instantly I thrust it away! Oh, now, life, life! I
lifted up my hands and called upon eternal truth, not with words but with
tears; ecstasy, immeasurable ecstasy flooded my soul. Yes, life and
spreading the good tidings! Oh, I at that moment resolved to spread the
tidings, and resolved it, of course, for my whole life. I go to spread the
tidings, I want to spread the tidings--of what? Of the truth, for I have
seen it, have seen it with my own eyes, have seen it in all its glory.

And since then I have been preaching! Moreover I love all those who laugh
at me more than any of the rest. Why that is so I do not know and cannot
explain, but so be it. I am told that I am vague and confused, and if I am
vague and confused now, what shall I be later on? It is true indeed: I am
vague and confused, and perhaps as time goes on I shall be more so. And of
course I shall make many blunders before I find out how to preach, that is,
find out what words to say, what things to do, for it is a very difficult
task. I see all that as clear as daylight, but, listen, who does not make
mistakes? And yet, you know, all are making for the same goal, all are
striving in the same direction anyway, from the sage to the lowest robber,
only by different roads. It is an old truth, but this is what is new: I
cannot go far wrong. For I have seen the truth; I have seen and I know
that people can be beautiful and happy without losing the power of living
on earth. I will not and cannot believe that evil is the normal condition
of mankind. And it is just this faith of mine that they laugh at. But how
can I help believing it? I have seen the truth--it is not as though I had
invented it with my mind, I have seen it, seen it, and _the living image_
of it has filled my soul for ever. I have seen it in such full perfection
that I cannot believe that it is impossible for people to have it. And so
how can I go wrong? I shall make some slips no doubt, and shall perhaps
talk in second-hand language, but not for long: the living image of what I
saw will always be with me and will always correct and guide me. Oh, I am
full of courage and freshness, and I will go on and on if it were for a
thousand years! Do you know, at first I meant to conceal the fact that I
corrupted them, but that was a mistake--that was my first mistake! But
truth whispered to me that I was _lying_, and preserved me and corrected
me. But how establish paradise--I don't know, because I do not know how to
put it into words. After my dream I lost command of words. All the chief
words, anyway, the most necessary ones. But never mind, I shall go and I
shall keep talking, I won't leave off, for anyway I have seen it with my
own eyes, though I cannot describe what I saw. But the scoffers do not
understand that. It was a dream, they say, delirium, hallucination. Oh! As
though that meant so much! And they are so proud! A dream! What is a dream?
And is not our life a dream? I will say more. Suppose that this paradise
will never come to pass (that I understand), yet I shall go on preaching
it. And yet how simple it is: in one day, _in one hour_ everything could be
arranged at once! The chief thing is to love others like yourself, that's
the great thing, and that's everything; nothing else is wanted--you will
find out at once how to arrange it all. And yet it's an old truth which has
been told and retold a billion times--but it has not formed part of our
lives! The consciousness of life is higher than life, the knowledge of the
laws of happiness is higher than happiness--that is what one must contend
against. And I shall. If only every one wants it, it can all be arranged at
once.

       *       *       *       *       *

And I tracked out that little girl ... and I shall go on and on!

THE END

================================================================================

Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, MFR, Barry Abrahamsen, and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images
made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)

                         STAVROGIN’S CONFESSION

                                  AND

                              THE PLAN OF

                       THE LIFE OF A GREAT SINNER

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            F. M. DOSTOEVSKY

                         STAVROGIN’S CONFESSION
                                  AND
                              THE PLAN OF
                       THE LIFE OF A GREAT SINNER

                WITH INTRODUCTORY AND EXPLANATORY NOTES

                             TRANSLATED BY

                  S. S. KOTELIANSKY AND VIRGINIA WOOLF

                PUBLISHED BY LEONARD & VIRGINIA WOOLF AT
               THE HOGARTH PRESS, PARADISE ROAD, RICHMOND
                                  1922

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          All rights reserved

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           TRANSLATORS’ NOTE

THE Russian Government has recently published a small paper-covered book
containing _Stavrogin’s Confession_, unpublished chapters of
Dostoevsky’s novel _The Possessed_, and Dostoevsky’s plan or sketch of a
novel which he never actually wrote but which he called _The Life of a
Great Sinner_. The circumstances in which these MSS. were discovered are
described in the note of the Russian Government which we give below. Our
translation of _Stavrogin’s Confession_ and of the plan is from the text
as published by the Russian Government. We have added translations of
introductory or explanatory notes upon the two MSS. by V. Friche, V.
Komarovich, and N. Brodsky. The notes by Friche and Komarovich are given
in the book published by the Russian Government, that by M. Komarovich
appeared in _Builoe_ (No. 18, 1922).

It should be added that there are two different versions of the
unpublished chapters of _The Possessed_ in existence, and they have both
been published for the first time this year. The second version, which
is in the Pushkin Department of the Russian Academy of Sciences, was
published in _Builoe_. We have not included it, since it appears to be
an earlier version than that published by the Russian Government. It
should be noted that M. Komarovich’s note refers to this version in the
Academy of Sciences.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                CONTENTS

                                                            PAGE

        TRANSLATORS’ NOTE                                      5

        NEW MSS. OF F. M. DOSTOEVSKY: NOTE BY THE RUSSIAN      9
          GOVERNMENT

        STAVROGIN’S CONFESSION. BY F. M. DOSTOEVSKY           17

        THE PLAN OF _THE LIFE OF A GREAT SINNER_. BY F. M.    85
          DOSTOEVSKY

        STAVROGIN’S MEETING WITH TIKHON. BY V. FRICHE        115

        INTRODUCTION TO THE UNPUBLISHED CHAPTER OF _THE      125
          POSSESSED_. BY V. KOMAROVICH

        THE UNFULFILLED IDEA: NOTE ON _THE LIFE OF A GREAT   145
          SINNER_. BY N. BRODSKY

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      NEW MSS. OF F. M. DOSTOEVSKY

                     NOTE BY THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT

ON November 12, 1921, in the presence of A. V. Lunacharsky, Commissar of
Education, and M. N. Pokrovsky, Assistant Commissar of Education, in the
Central Archive Department of the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet
Republic there was opened a white tin case numbered 5038 from the State
Archives containing F. M. Dostoevsky’s papers.

In the case were twenty-three articles: note-books, bags, and bundles of
letters and other documents. On one of these note-books, which is bound
(187 numbered pages), is written: “en cas de ma mort ou une maladie
grave”; these are business papers and instructions of Anna Grigorevna
Dostoevsky, the writer’s wife. On pages 53-55 she has written: “List of
note-books in which Fedor Mikhailovich wrote the plans of his novels and
also some biographical notes, copies of letters, etc.” Madame A. G.
Dostoevsky gives a list of fifteen such note-books with a short
description of their contents and disposal: Nos. 1 and 2, _Crime and
Punishment_; No. 3, _Crime and Punishment_ and _The Idiot_; Nos. 4-5,
_Journal_, 1876; No. 6, _Journal_, 1881; Nos. 7 and 8, _The Raw Youth_;
No. 9, _Brothers Karamazov_; No. 10, _The Idiot_; No. 11, _The Eternal
Husband_; Nos. 12-15, _The Possessed_. Of these fifteen note-books
enumerated by A. G. Dostoevsky the following were deposited on her
instructions in the Historical Museum: No. 7, No. 12, and No. 13.
Note-book No. 8 was in 1901 “transferred to Lubov Fedorovna Dostoevsky”
(Dostoevsky’s daughter), and No. 9 was deposited elsewhere. The other
note-books of Dostoevsky given in A. G. Dostoevsky’s list, with the
exception of No. 11, _i.e._ Nos. 1-6, 10, 14, and 15, were found in the
white case when it was opened on November 12 at the Central Archive
Department.

On the first page of these note-books A. G. Dostoevsky has, in her own
handwriting, given a brief list of their contents, as follows:

                                   No. 1
                            (147 numbered pages)

    1. Variant of the novel _Crime and Punishment_, under the title _On
    Trial_. (Raskolnikov tells his story.)

    2. Materials for the novel _Crime and Punishment_.

    3. Draft of letter to Katkov.

                                   No. 2
                                (152 pages)

    1. Variant of the novel _Crime and Punishment_.

    2. Materials for the novel _Crime and Punishment_.

    3. Materials for the tale _The Crocodile_.—Answers to
    _Sovremennik_.—Notes.

    4. Letter to Katkov (1865) explaining the fundamental idea of _Crime
    and Punishment_.

                                   No. 3
                                (154 pages)

    1. Materials for the novel _Crime and Punishment_.

    2. Materials for the novel _The Idiot_.

                                   No. 4
                            (Pages not numbered)

    _Journal, 1876._ January, February, March.

                                   No. 5
                                 (84 pages)

    _Journal, 1876._ April, December.

                                   No. 6
                                 (58 pages)

    _Journal, 1881._

                                   No. 10
                                (136 pages)

    _The Idiot._

                                   No. 14
                                 (56 pages)

    _The Possessed._ Notes for the end of the novel.

                                   No. 15
                                 (62 pages)

    _The Possessed._

In addition to these note-books which were in A. G. Dostoevsky’s list,
there were also found in the white case three other note-books not
mentioned by her, namely, (1) containing materials for _The Raw Youth_,
in a linen binding, 204 pages; (2) unbound, 33½ folios, also containing
material for _The Raw Youth_ (one of these may be either No. 7 or No. 8
above); (3) containing materials for _The Idiot_, 144 pages.[1]

Footnote 1:

  This is almost certainly No. 11 above, since it contains, besides
  notes for _The Idiot_, notes for _The Eternal Husband_.

Everything of value in these note-books will be published in a book, now
being prepared, which will include Dostoevsky’s letters found in the
case; they cover the period 1839-1855, mostly to his brother, as well as
the period 1866-1880, the latter being to his fiancée and future wife,
A. G. Dostoevsky. The new note-books will make it possible to understand
with some accuracy and completeness the method of work by which
Dostoevsky produced such masterpieces as _Crime and Punishment_, _The
Raw Youth_, and _The Possessed_. Besides these, there are scattered
through the note-books subjects of stories (_The Crank_), long tales
(_The Seekings_), poems (_Imperator_), which were planned but not
written.

In addition to the list which Madame Dostoevsky gives in the note-book
marked “en cas de ma mort, etc.,” she also mentions one other note-book
in which fifteen proof-sheets of _The Possessed_ had been pasted. This
note-book was also found in the white case. On the first page of it A.
G. Dostoevsky has written: “In this note-book (in proof-sheets) are a
few chapters of the novel _The Possessed_, which were not included in it
by F. M. Dostoevsky, when it was published in _Russkìi Vèstnik_. The
first chapter (proof-sheets 1-5) was first published in the eighth
volume of the jubilee edition of the Complete Works in the section
‘Materials for the novel _The Possessed_.’” (This last statement is not
quite correct. In the “Materials,” to which A. G. Dostoevsky refers, the
first chapter is not published in full, the first twenty lines not being
included.) “The other chapters,” A. G. Dostoevsky continues, “have never
been published.”

Below the reader will find the text of these two hitherto unpublished
chapters of _The Possessed_. We have thought it necessary also to
republish the first chapter, because all these chapters form a whole and
should be given together, and also because the beginning of the first
chapter was not published in the Supplement to Vol. VIII. of the jubilee
edition. The fifteen proof-sheets pasted in the note-book—particularly
after the first chapter—are covered, in the margins and the text itself,
with a vast number of corrections, insertions, and additions in
Dostoevsky’s handwriting.

We give below the text of the proofs with only a few of the author’s
corrections. We have omitted passages which Dostoevsky struck out
without substituting a variant, though we give such passages in the
footnotes. We have made a few corrections about which there could be no
doubt. All the other corrections and additions, which are extremely
numerous, will be given in a book of new materials on Dostoevsky which
is under preparation. It is clear that the author himself did not
consider that these marginal corrections and additions were final. This
is shown by the fact that there are several mistakes in the text and the
punctuation is not always correct, while often there are several
different corrections of the text in the margin and it is not clear
which correction is to be preferred; other passages are incompletely
corrected, and, lastly, several corrections inserted in the text give a
rough version in which the same idea is expressed more than once in
different words.

The plan of _The Life of a Great Sinner_, which we give below, is taken
from F. M. Dostoevsky’s note-book which is in the Historical Museum.
This plan has recently been published by L. P. Grossman in his book on
Dostoevsky,[2] but not in full nor accurately, with such important
omissions that the text given below can alone be considered accurately
to reproduce the original.

Footnote 2:

  _Dostoevsky’s Genius_, Odessa, 1921.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         STAVROGIN’S CONFESSION

            THREE HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED CHAPTERS OF THE NOVEL

                            _THE POSSESSED_

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             PART SECOND[3]

Footnote 3:

  Originally “Chapter IX.”

                               CHAPTER I

                              AT TIKHON’S

                                   I

NIKOLAI VSEVOLODOVICH did not sleep that night, and all the time he sat
on the sofa, often gazing fixedly at a particular point in the corner
near the chest of drawers. All night long the lamp burnt in his room.
About seven o’clock in the morning he fell asleep where he sat, and,
when Alexei Egorovich, according to invariable custom, came into his
room at half-past nine precisely with a cup of coffee and, by coming in,
woke him, he seemed unpleasantly surprised that he should have slept so
long and that it was already so late. He hastily drank his coffee,
hastily dressed himself, and hurriedly left the house. To Alexei
Egorovich’s hesitating question “Any orders?” he made no reply. He
walked along the street looking at the ground, deep in thought, save
that now and then he looked up for a moment, raised his head, showing a
certain vague but violent uneasiness. At one crossing, not far from the
house, a crowd of peasants, about fifty or more, crossed the road; they
walked orderly, almost silently, in deliberate order. At the little
shop, where he had to wait a moment, some one said that these were
“Shpigulin’s workmen.” He hardly paid any attention to them. At last,
about half-past ten, he approached the gate of Our Lady Spasso-Efimev
Monastery, on the outskirts of the town, by the river. Here only he
suddenly seemed to remember something alarming and troublesome, stopped,
hastily fumbled for something in his side pocket and—smiled. Upon
entering the enclosure he asked the first youth he met how to find
Bishop Tikhon, who was living in retirement in the Monastery. The youth
began bowing, and immediately showed the way. Near the little flight of
steps, at the end of the long two-storied Monastery buildings, he was
taken over from the youth, authoritatively and promptly, by a fat
grey-haired monk, who took him through a long narrow corridor, also
bowing all the time (though because of his fat he could not bow low, but
only twitched his head frequently and abruptly), and all the time
begging him to follow, though Nikolai Vsevolodovich followed without
being told to. The monk asked questions incessantly and spoke of the
Father Archimandrite, but, receiving no answers, he became more and more
deferential. Stavrogin observed that he was known here, although, so far
as he remembered, he had only been here as a child. When they reached
the door at the very end of the corridor the monk opened it, as if he
had authority, and enquired familiarly of the lay-brother, who instantly
appeared, whether they might go in; then, without waiting for a reply,
he threw the door wide open, and, bending down, let the “dear” visitor
enter. On receiving a gratuity he quickly disappeared, as if in flight.
Nikolai Vsevolodovich entered a small room, and almost at that very
moment there appeared in the door of the adjoining room a tall thin man,
aged about fifty-five, in a simple cassock, looking rather ill, with a
vague smile and with a strange, somewhat shy expression. This was that
very Tikhon of whom Nikolai Vsevolodovich had heard for the first time
from Shatov, and about whom he had since managed to collect in passing
certain information.

The information was varied and contradictory, but there was something
common to it all, namely, that those who liked Tikhon and those who did
not like him (there were such) both kept back something of their
opinion. Those who did not like him probably did it out of contempt for
him; and his adherents, even the ardent ones, from a sort of modesty, as
though wishing to conceal something about him—some weakness, some
craziness perhaps. Nikolai Vsevolodovich had found out that Tikhon had
been living in the Monastery for about six years, and that the humblest
people as well as the most distinguished were in the habit of going to
him there; that even in far-distant Petersburg he had ardent admirers
amongst men, but chiefly among women. Again he had also heard from one
stately-looking old man belonging to our “Club,” a pious old man too,
this opinion, that “that Tikhon is almost a madman[4] and, undoubtedly,
given to drink.” For my own part, I shall add, although this is
anticipating, that the last statement is complete rubbish, but that he
is afflicted with a chronic rheumatic affection in his legs and suffers
at times from nervous tremors. Nikolai Vsevolodovich also learnt that
the Bishop who lived in retreat in the Monastery had not managed to
inspire a particular respect for himself in the Monastery itself, either
through weakness of character or through absentmindedness unforgivable
and improper in one of his rank. It was also said that the Father
Archimandrite, a stern man, conscientious in the discharge of his duties
as Father Superior, and famous too for his scholarship, even cherished a
certain hostility against him and condemned him (not to his face, but
indirectly) for his slovenly mode of life, and almost accused him of
heresy. The monks, too, treated the sick Bishop not exactly with
neglect, but with a sort of familiarity. The two rooms which composed
Tikhon’s cell were also rather strangely furnished. Side by side with
clumsy old pieces of furniture, covered with shabby leather, were three
or four elegant things: a superb easy-chair, a large writing-table of
excellent workmanship, a daintily carved bookcase, little tables,
shelves, all of which had, of course, been given to him as presents.
There was an expensive Bokhara carpet, and also mats. There were
engravings of a “worldly” nature and of mythological subjects, and
alongside with these in the corner there was a large shrine glittering
with gold and silver icons, one of which was of very ancient date and
contained relics. His library also, it was said, was of a too varied and
contradictory character: side by side with the works of the great
ecclesiastics and Christian Fathers there were works “of drama and
fiction, and perhaps something even worse.”

Footnote 4:

  After “madman” is struck out: “and at any rate, a perfectly talentless
  creature.”

After the first greetings, uttered with an evident awkwardness on both
sides, hurriedly and even indistinctly, Tikhon led his visitor to his
study, and, as if all the while in a hurry, made him sit on the sofa, in
front of the table, and sat down himself nearby in a wicker chair.[5] To
his surprise Nikolai Vsevolodovich was completely at a loss. It looked
as if he was making up his mind with all his might on a step
extraordinary and inevitable, and yet at the same time almost impossible
for him. For a minute he looked about the study, evidently without
seeing what he looked at;[6] he was thinking but, perhaps, without
knowing of what. He was roused by the stillness, and suddenly it
appeared to him that Tikhon cast down his eyes with a kind of shyness,
with a quite unnecessary[7] smile. This instantly roused in him disgust
and reaction; he wanted to get up and go; in his opinion, Tikhon was
decidedly drunk. But the latter suddenly raised his eyes and looked at
him with such a firm and thoughtful gaze, and at the same time with such
an unexpected and enigmatical expression, that he nearly shuddered. And
now it suddenly seemed to him something absolutely different: that
Tikhon already knew why he had come, that he was already warned
(although nobody in the whole world could know the reason), and that if
he did not speak first, it was because he was sparing his feelings, was
afraid of his humiliation.

Footnote 5:

  After the words “wicker chair” there stood originally: “Nikolai
  Vsevolodovich was still much distracted by some inner overpowering
  agitation.”

Footnote 6:

  After the words “looked at” originally stood: “he thought and,
  certainly, did not know of what.”

Footnote 7:

  There is struck out “ridiculous.”

“Do you know me?” he suddenly asked abruptly. “Did I introduce myself
when I came in or not? Pardon me, I am so absent-minded....”

“You did not introduce yourself, but I had the pleasure of seeing you
once about four years ago, here in the Monastery ... by chance.”

Tikhon spoke unhurriedly and evenly, in a soft voice, pronouncing his
words clearly and distinctly.

“I was not in this Monastery four years ago,” Nikolai Vsevolodovich
replied with unnecessary rudeness. “I was here only as a child, when you
were not yet here.”

“Perhaps you have forgotten?” Tikhon observed guardedly and without
insisting upon it.

“No, I have not forgotten; it would be ridiculous if I did not
remember,” Stavrogin on his part insisted rather too hotly. “Perhaps you
have merely heard about me and formed some idea, and thus made the
mistake that you had seen me.”

Tikhon remained silent. Nikolai Vsevolodovich now noticed that a nervous
shudder sometimes passed over his face, a symptom of chronic nervous
exhaustion.

“I see only that you are not well to-day,” he said. “I think it would be
better if I went.”

He even began to rise from his seat.

“Yes, to-day and yesterday I have had violent pains in my legs and I
slept little during the night....”

Tikhon stopped. His visitor suddenly fell into a vague reverie. The
silence lasted long, about two minutes.

“You were watching me?” he suddenly asked with anxiety and suspicion.

“I looked at you, and was reminded of the expression on your mother’s
face. Externally unlike, there is much inner, spiritual resemblance.”

“There is no resemblance at all, certainly no spiritual—absolutely
none!” Nikolai Vsevolodovich grew again uneasy for no reason and too
persistent without knowing why. “You say this just ... out of pity for
my state,”[8] he said without thinking. “Ah! does my mother come and see
you?”

Footnote 8:

  There is struck out “and rubbish.”

“She does.”

“I didn’t know. She never told me. Does she come often?”

“Nearly every month, sometimes oftener.”

“I never, never heard of that. I did not know.” He seemed terribly
alarmed by that fact. “And she, of course, told you that I am mad,” he
broke out again.

“No, not exactly that you are mad—though, I’ve heard that notion too,
but from others.”

“You must have a very good memory, if you can remember such trifles. And
did you hear about the slap in the face?”

“I heard something about that.”

“You mean everything. You must have a great deal of time on your hands.
And about the duel too?”[9]

Footnote 9:

  After “And about the duel” there followed originally: “You did hear a
  great deal here.”

“And about the duel.”

“You don’t need newspapers here. Shatov warned you against me?”

“No, I know Mr. Shatov, though; but I haven’t seen him for a long time.”

“Hm.... What’s that map you have got there? Ah, the map of the last war!
What do you want with it?”

“I wanted to refer to it in reading this book. It’s a most interesting
description.”

“Let me see. Yes, the account is not bad.[10] Yet what strange reading
for you.”

Footnote 10:

  Originally “This is not a bad account.”

He drew the book towards him and gave it a cursory glance. It was a full
and able account of the circumstances of the last war, not so much from
the military point of view, however, as from the purely literary. Having
turned the book over, he suddenly put it down impatiently.

“I positively do not know why I came here,” he said with aversion,
looking straight into Tikhon’s eyes, as though he expected him to reply.

“You, too, are not feeling well!”

“No, not altogether.”[11]

Footnote 11:

  Originally “No, I am not well.”

And suddenly he related, in the shortest and most abrupt manner so that
certain words could hardly be understood, that he was subject,
especially at nights, to a kind of hallucinations, that he sometimes saw
or felt near him a spiteful being, mocking and “rational,” “in various
forms and in various characters, but it is always one and the same and I
always fly into a rage.”

Wild and confused were these revelations, as if indeed they came from a
madman. And yet Nikolai Vsevolodovich spoke with such strange frankness,
never seen in him before, with such a simplicity, quite unnatural to
him, that it seemed as if suddenly and unexpectedly his former self had
completely disappeared. He was not in the least ashamed of showing the
fear with which he spoke of his apparition. But all this was momentary
and went as suddenly as it had come.

“It’s all nonsense,” he said, drawing back with awkward irritation.
“I’ll go and see a doctor.”

“You should, certainly,” Tikhon assented.

“You speak so confidently.... Have you seen people, like me, with such
apparitions?”

“I have, but very rarely. Indeed I remember only one such case in my
life. He was a military officer; it was after he had lost his wife, his
life companion. The other case was mere hearsay. Both men then went to a
cure abroad.[12] Have you been subject to this for long?”

Footnote 12:

  Originally “were cured.”

“For about a year, but it’s all nonsense. I’ll see a doctor. This is all
nonsense, utter nonsense. It is myself in various aspects, and nothing
else. But even as I use that phrase, you certainly think that I am still
doubtful and am not sure that it is myself, and not really the devil.”

Tikhon gave him a questioning look.

“And ... you actually see him?” he asked, dismissing, in fact, any
question of its being a false and morbid hallucination. “Do you actually
see a certain image?”

“It is strange that you should lay such stress upon this, when I have
already told you that I do see it.” Stavrogin again began to grow more
and more irritated with each word. “Of course I see it; I see it as
plainly as I see you ... and sometimes I see it and I’m not sure that I
see it, although I do see it ... and sometimes[13] I do not know what is
real: I or it ... it’s all nonsense. And can’t you possibly believe that
this is indeed the devil?” he added, breaking into a laugh and passing
too abruptly into derision. “Surely that would be more in keeping with
your profession.”

Footnote 13:

  After “although I do see it ... and sometimes” there originally
  followed “I am not sure that I see.”

“It is more likely a disease, although....”

“Although what?”

“Devils certainly exist, but one’s conception of them may be very
various.”

“And you have again just looked down,” Stavrogin broke in with an
irritating laugh, “because you were ashamed that I should believe in the
devil; but I made out that I did not believe and cunningly put the
question to you: does he or does he not really exist?”

Tikhon gave a vague smile.[14]

Footnote 14:

  After “smile” there is struck out: “And do you know, it does not suit
  you at all to cast your eyes down: it is unnatural, ridiculous, and
  affected.”

“Well, know then that I am not at all ashamed, and to make up for my
rudeness I will tell you, seriously and unblushingly: I do believe in
the devil, I believe canonically, in a personal, not allegorical, devil,
and I do not in the least want to extort an answer from any one; now
that’s all.”[15]

Footnote 15:

  After “all” there is struck out: “You must be awfully glad.”

He gave a nervous, unnatural laugh. Tikhon looked at him with curiosity,
with a rather timorous, yet gentle look.

“You believe in God?” Nikolai Vsevolodovich suddenly burst out.

“I do.”

“It is said, if you believe and bid a mountain move, it will move ...
though, pardon me this nonsense. Yet I am curious to know: could you
move a mountain or not?”

“If God will, I could,” Tikhon uttered quickly and calmly, again
beginning to look down at the ground.

“Well, it’s just the same as saying that God Himself could move it. But
you, you, as a reward for your belief in God?”

“Perhaps I could move it.”

“‘Perhaps.’[16] Well, that is not bad, either. But you are still
doubtful?”

Footnote 16:

  After “perhaps” there is struck out: “That’s not bad. Why do you have
  doubts, then?”—“I believe imperfectly.”

“Through the imperfection of my belief I have doubts.”

“Why, do _you_ believe incompletely?”

“Yes ... perhaps; I do believe and not perfectly,” Tikhon replied.

“That is what I should not think, looking at you!”—he suddenly gave him
a look of some surprise, a perfectly simple look which did not at all
harmonize with the mocking tone of the preceding questions.

“Well, at any rate you do believe that, even if it be with God’s help,
you could move it, and that is something, after all. At least, you wish
to believe. And you take the mountain literally. It is a good principle.
I observed that the progressives among our Levites are greatly inclined
towards Lutheranism. Anyhow it is better than the _très peu_ of the
Archbishop, it is true, under the threat of the sword. You are,
certainly, a Christian too.” Stavrogin spoke quickly, his words now
serious, now mocking.

“May I not be ashamed, Lord, of Thy Cross.” Tikhon almost whispered it,
with a passionate whisper, and bowed his head still lower.[17]

Footnote 17:

  After “his head still lower” there is struck out: “the corners of his
  lips suddenly began twitching, quickly and nervously.”

“And can one believe in the devil, without believing in God?” Stavrogin
laughed.

“Oh, there are such people everywhere.” Tikhon raised his eyes and
smiled.

“And I am sure that you find such belief more respectable after all than
complete unbelief....”[18] Stavrogin began to laugh.

Footnote 18:

  After “unbelief” is struck out: “Oh, parson!”

“On the contrary, complete atheism is more respectable than worldly
indifference,” Tikhon answered, with visible gaiety and good-nature.

“Oho, that’s how you get round it!”

“A complete atheist stands on the last rung but one before absolute
faith (he may or may not step higher), but an indifferent man has no
longer any faith at all, nothing but an ugly fear, and that only on rare
occasions, if he is a sentimental man.”

“Hm ... you have read the Apocalypse?”

“I have.”

“Do you remember, ‘Write to the Angel of the Laodicean Church’?”

“I do.”[19]

Footnote 19:

  After “I do” is struck out: “They are fascinating
  words.”—“‘Fascinating,’ these are strange words for a bishop; you are
  altogether a queer fellow.”

“Where is the book?” Stavrogin began with a strange hurry and anxiety,
searching with his eyes for the book on the table. “I want to read to
you ... you have a Russian translation?”

“I know the passage, I remember it,” Tikhon murmured.

“Do you know it by heart? Read it....”

He at once looked at the ground, rested both his hands on his knees, and
impatiently prepared to listen. Tikhon repeated word for word:

“Write to the Angel of the Laodicean Church: The true and authoritative
witness of the beginning of the creations of God says Amen. I know thy
works; thou art neither cold nor hot. Would that thou wert cold or hot.
But in so far as thou art lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I shall
spew thee out from my lips. For thou sayest: I am rich; I have
everything and need nothing; but thou knowest not that thou art
miserable, and poor and beggarly and blind and naked....”

“Enough,” Stavrogin cut him short.[20] “Do you know, I love you very
much.”

Footnote 20:

  After “Stavrogin cut him short” is struck out: “this is for those in
  the middle, this is for the indifferent ones, isn’t it?”

“I love you too,” Tikhon replied in a low voice.

Stavrogin fell silent and suddenly lapsed again into his old reverie.
This came as though in fits and now for the third time. And the “I love”
he said to Tikhon was also said almost in an impulse, at any rate
unexpectedly to himself. More than a minute passed.

“Do not be angry,” Tikhon whispered, touching his arm very lightly with
his finger and as though his courage failed him.

Stavrogin shuddered and frowned angrily.

“How did you know that I was angry?” he said hastily. Tikhon was about
to reply, when he suddenly interrupted him in inexplicable alarm:

“Why did you think that I must necessarily become angry? Yes, I was
angry; you are right; and just because I had said to you ‘I love.’ You
are right, but you are a crude cynic, you think slightingly of human
nature. There might have been no anger, had it been any one else but
myself.... Though, it does not matter about others; it concerns me.
After all, you are a queer fellow and crazy.”

He grew more and more irritated, and, strangely, made no attempt to
restrain his language:

“Listen, I do not like spies and thought-readers, at any rate those who
creep into my soul. I do not invite any one into my soul; I need no one;
I am able to shift for myself. You think I am afraid of you,” he raised
his voice and looked up defiantly; “you are quite convinced that I have
come to confide to you some ‘terrible’ secret, and you are waiting for
it with all the hermit curiosity of which you are capable. Understand
then that I will confide nothing to you, no secret, because I can
perfectly well do without you....”[21]

Footnote 21:

  Instead of “perfectly, etc.,” the original had “I don’t need you in
  the least.”

Tikhon looked at him firmly.

“It surprised you that the Lamb prefers a cold man to a merely lukewarm
one,” he said. “You don’t want to be merely lukewarm. I have a
foreboding that you are possessed by an extraordinary intention, perhaps
a terrible one. I implore you, don’t torment yourself and tell me
everything.”[22]

Footnote 22:

  After “tell everything” there is struck out: “for which you came
  here.”

“And you knew for certain that I had come with something.”

“I ... guessed it,”[23] Tikhon replied in a whisper, looking down.

Footnote 23:

  After “guessed” there is struck out: “from your face.”

Nikolai Vsevolodovich was rather pale; his hands shook a little. For a
few seconds he looked motionlessly and silently, as though coming to a
final decision. At last he took out of the side pocket of his coat a few
printed sheets and put them on the table.

“These sheets are meant for circulation,” he said in a tremulous voice.
“If only one man reads them, then understand that I shall keep them back
no longer, and they will be read by every one. That is settled. I don’t
need you at all, for I have settled it. But read them ... while you are
reading them, say nothing; but after you have read them—say
everything....”

“Shall I read them?” Tikhon asked irresolutely.

“Do; I am calm.”

“No; I shall not be able to read them without glasses; the printing is
pale, foreign.”

“Here are your glasses.” Stavrogin took them from the table and handed
them to him, and leant on the back of the sofa. Tikhon did not look at
him, and plunged straight into the reading.

                                   II

The printing was in fact foreign: three little sheets of ordinary
small-sized writing-paper printed and stitched together. It must have
been printed secretly at a Russian press abroad, and the sheets at the
first glance looked very much like a political pamphlet. The title read:
“From Stavrogin.”

I insert the document literally in my chronicle.[24] I have allowed
myself to correct the spelling, for the mistakes are rather numerous and
have surprised me a little, considering after all that the author was a
man of education and even well-read (of course, relatively speaking).
But in the style I have made no alterations whatever, in spite of its
irregularities. It is at any rate clear that the writer was above all
not a man of letters.[25]

Footnote 24:

  After “chronicle” there is struck out: “it must be supposed that it is
  now known to many.”

Footnote 25:

  After the words “above all not a man of letters” there is written in
  Dostoevsky’s hand on the proofs “one remark, only one.” In the text of
  the opening of Chapter I., published as a Supplement to Vol. VIII. of
  the Jubilee Edition of 1906 of Dostoevsky’s Works, there is the
  following passage, which is not in the proofs:

  “I shall allow myself one more remark, although I am straying in
  advance of my story. This document is, in my opinion, a morbid work, a
  work of the devil who took hold of that gentleman. It is like this: as
  if a man were suffering from acute pain and tossing about in bed,
  trying to find a position to relieve his pain even for a moment. Not
  even to relieve the pain, but only to change it, momentarily, for
  another. In a situation like that, one of course does not bother about
  the becomingness or good sense of the position. The fundamental idea
  of the document is a terrible, undisguised craving for
  self-punishment, the need for the cross, for immolation in the eyes of
  all. And yet this need for the cross in a man who does not believe in
  the cross, does not this in itself form ‘an idea,’ as Stepan
  Trofimovich expressed himself once, on a different occasion though. On
  the other hand, the document is at the same time something wild and
  random, although evidently written with a different intention. The
  author declares that he could not help writing it, that he was
  ‘compelled,’ and this is quite likely; he would have been glad to let
  that cup pass him by, if only he could; but he indeed, so it seems,
  could not do so, and he merely snatched at a convenient excuse for a
  fresh outburst. Yes, the sick man tosses about in his bed and wishes
  to exchange one pain for another, and now the struggle with society
  appears to him the easiest position, and he throws out a challenge to
  it.

  “Indeed, in the very fact of such a document is implied a new,
  unexpected, and unforgivable defiance of society—only to find some
  enemy to pick a quarrel with!

  “And who can say? perhaps all this, the sheets and their intended
  publication, are but the same as the Governor’s bitten ear, only in a
  different shape. But why this should come into my mind now, when so
  much has already been explained, I can’t understand. I bring forward
  no proof, nor do I at all assert that the document is false, that is,
  completely made up and fabricated. Most likely the truth ought to be
  sought somewhere midway. However, I have already wandered too far in
  advance; it is safer to turn to the document itself. This is what
  Tikhon read.”

  Here ends the first chapter in the Supplement to Vol. VIII. of
  Dostoevsky’s Works, Jubilee Edition, 1906.

“From Stavrogin.

“I, Nikolai Stavrogin, retired officer, lived in the year 186.. in
Petersburg, abandoned to vice, in which I found no pleasure. For a
certain period at that time I rented three lodgings. In one of them I
lived myself and boarded and lodged, and there at that time lived Marya
Lebiadkin, now my lawful wife. My other two lodgings I rented by the
month for the purpose of an intrigue: in one I received a certain lady
who loved me, and in the other her maid, and for a time I was much
engrossed with the notion of contriving that both the lady and the maid
should meet each other at my lodging.[26] Knowing the characters of
both, I anticipated for myself great pleasure from that joke.

Footnote 26:

  After “should meet, etc.,” there is struck out: “in the presence of my
  friends and of her husband.”

“While I was gradually preparing for this meeting, I had to go more
often to one of the two lodgings in a large house in Gorokhovaya Street,
since that was the place where the maid and I met. I had only one room
there, on the fifth floor, which I rented from some Russian
working-class people. They themselves fitted themselves into the
adjoining room, which was smaller than mine and so much so that the door
dividing my room from theirs always stood open, which was what I wanted.
The husband, a clerk in some office, used to be out from early morning
till night. His wife, a woman of about forty, was occupied in cutting
down old clothes and making them up into new, and she also frequently
left the house to deliver her work. I remained alone with their
daughter,[27] who was quite a child to look at. They called her
Matryosha. Her mother loved her, but often beat her, and, as is the
custom of these people, shouted at her horribly. This little girl waited
on me and tidied up after me behind the screens. I declare I have
forgotten the number of the house. Now, upon enquiry, I find that the
old house has been demolished, and, where there were then two or three
houses, there is now one very large new house. I have also forgotten my
landlord’s name (or perhaps I never knew it even at the time). I
remember that the woman was called Stepanida, I believe, Mikhailovna.
Him I do not remember.[28] I suppose that if a search were started and
all possible enquiries made by the Petersburg police, they could be
traced. The flat was in a courtyard, in the corner. All happened in
June. The house was painted a bright sky-blue.

Footnote 27:

  After “with their daughter” is struck out: “I think her age was about
  fourteen.”

Footnote 28:

  After “I do not remember” is struck out: “who they are, from where
  they come, and where they are now, I don’t know in the least.”

“One day I missed from my table a penknife which I did not need in the
least, and which lay there for no particular reason. I told my landlady,
without thinking that she would thrash her daughter for it. But the
landlady had just been scolding the little girl[29] for the loss of some
rag, suspecting that she had stolen it, and had even pulled her hair.
When that rag was found under the tablecloth, the little girl did not
utter a single word of complaint, and just looked in silence. I noticed
that, and then for the first time I observed the face of the little
girl, which until then I had hardly noticed properly. She had fair hair,
and a freckled ordinary face, but there was much in it that was childish
and quiet, extraordinarily quiet. The mother did not like it that the
daughter made no complaint for having been beaten for nothing, and she
raised her fist, but did not strike; and just at that moment the subject
of the penknife came up. Besides the three of us, there was in fact
nobody, and only the little girl went behind my screen. The woman flew
into a rage at having for the first time punished her unjustly, and she
rushed for the broom, tore twigs from it, and thrashed the little girl
in my presence until her body was covered with scars, although the child
was already in her twelfth year. Matryosha did not cry at the thrashing,
probably because I was there, but she gave a strange sob at each blow.
And afterwards she sobbed very much for a whole hour.

Footnote 29:

  After “girl” is struck out: “(I lived with them on familiar terms, and
  they stood on no ceremonies with me).”

“But there was just this before that happened: at the very moment when
the landlady rushed for the broom to pull out twigs, I found the
penknife on my bed, where it had somehow or other fallen from the table.
Instantly it occurred to my mind not to say so, in order that she should
be thrashed. I decided on it instantaneously; in such moments my
breathing always stops. But I mean to tell the whole thing in the
plainest language, so that there can no longer remain anything
concealed.

“Every unusually disgraceful, utterly degrading, dastardly, and, above
all, ridiculous situation, in which I ever happened to be in my life,
always roused in me, side by side with extreme anger, an incredible
delight. I felt exactly this in moments of committing crimes and in
moments when life was in danger. If I stole, I would feel, while
committing the theft, a rapture from the consciousness of the depth of
my vileness. It was not the vileness that I loved (here my mind was
perfectly sound), but I enjoyed rapture from the tormenting
consciousness of the baseness. In the same way each time when, standing
at the barrier, I waited for my opponent to fire, I experienced just the
same disgraceful and wild sensation; and once I did so with
extraordinary vividness. I confess that I often myself looked out for
it, because it is to me the strongest of sensations of the kind. When I
received a slap in the face (and I received two in my life), it was
there too, in spite of my terrible anger. But if the anger is checked by
it, then the delight surpasses anything that can be imagined. I never
spoke of this to any one, even by a hint, and I concealed it as a shame
and disgrace. But when I was once soundly beaten in a public-house in
Petersburg and was dragged by the hair, I did not experience that
sensation, but only an incredible anger, not being intoxicated, and I
put up a fight. But had I been seized by my hair and forced down by the
French Viscount abroad who slapped me on the cheek and whose lower jaw I
shot away for it, I should have felt a rapture and, perhaps, should not
have felt anger. So it seemed to me then.

“I tell all this in order that every one may know that the feeling never
absorbed the whole of me absolutely, but there always remained the most
perfect consciousness (on that consciousness indeed it was all based).
And although it would take hold of me to the pitch of madness, or, so to
say, obstinacy, it would never reach the point of making me forget
myself. It reached in me the point of a perfect fire, but I could at the
same time overcome it completely, even stop it at its climax; only I
never wished to stop it. I am convinced that I could live all my life as
a monk, in spite of the brutal voluptuousness with which I am gifted and
which I always called forth.[30] I am always master of myself when I
want to be. And so let it be understood that I do not claim
irresponsibility for my crimes, either on account of environment or of
disease.

Footnote 30:

  After “always called forth” there is struck out: “Having indulged up
  to the age of sixteen with extraordinary immoderation in the vice to
  which J. J. Rousseau confessed, I stopped it at the very moment which
  I had fixed, at the age of seventeen.”

“The thrashing over, I put the penknife in my waistcoat pocket and,
without saying a single word, left the house and threw it away in the
street, a long distance from the house, so that nobody should ever
discover it. Then I waited two days. The little girl, after she had
cried, became even more silent; against me, I am convinced, she had no
spite. Though she was, certainly, ashamed that she had been punished in
that way in my presence.[31] But for the shame she, like the child she
was, assuredly blamed no one but herself.[32]

Footnote 31:

  After “presence” is struck out: “she did not cry, but only sobbed
  under the blows, certainly because I stood there and saw everything.”

Footnote 32:

  After “herself” is struck out: “up till now she perhaps only feared
  me, not personally, but as a lodger, a stranger, and, I believe, she
  was very timid.”

“It was precisely during those two days that I once put to myself the
question, could I go away and give up the plan I had invented, and I
immediately felt that I could, that I could at any moment and at once.
About that time I wished to kill myself from the disease of
indifference; or rather I don’t know the reason, but during those two or
three days (for it was necessary to wait till the little girl forgot it
all) I, probably in order to divert myself from the idea which obsessed
me, or for fun, committed a theft in the rooms. This was the only theft
of my life.

“There were many people crowded in those rooms. Amongst others there
lived there a minor official with his family in two rooms; he was about
forty, not altogether a fool, and had a decent appearance, but was poor.
I did not make friends with him, and he was afraid of the company that
surrounded me there. He had only just received his salary—thirty-five
roubles. What chiefly influenced me was that I at that moment needed
money (although four days later I received money by post), so that I
stole, as though out of want, and not for fun. It was done impudently
and obviously: I simply entered his room, when he, his wife, and
children were dining in the other little room. There on the chair by the
door lay his folded uniform. The idea suddenly occurred to me when I was
in the corridor. I put my hand into the pocket and took the purse. But
the official heard a movement and looked out of his room. He, it seems,
actually saw, at any rate, something, but as he did not see it all, he,
of course, did not believe his eyes. I said that, as I was passing down
the corridor, I had come in to see the time by his clock. ‘It has
stopped,’ he said, and I went out.

“At that time I drank a great deal, and in my rooms was a whole crowd,
Lebiadkin amongst them. I threw away the purse and the small coins, but
kept the notes. There were thirty-two roubles, three red notes and two
yellow. I immediately changed one red note and sent for champagne; then
I sent the second red note, and the third. About four hours later
towards evening the official was waiting for me in the corridor.

“‘Nikolai Vsevolodovich, when you came in just now, did you by any
chance let my uniform fall off the chair ... it was by the door?’

“‘No, I don’t remember; was your uniform there?’

“‘Yes, it was.’

“‘On the floor?’

“‘First on the chair, and then on the floor.’

“‘Did you pick it up?’

“‘I did.’

“‘Well, what more do you want?’

“‘In that case, it’s all right....’

“He dared not finish, nor did he dare tell anybody in the rooms—so timid
are those people. In the lodgings every one was extremely afraid of me
and respected me. After that I liked to catch his eye a couple of times
in the corridor. Soon I got bored with it.

“After three days[33] I returned to Gorokhovaya Street. The mother was
just going out with a bundle; the man, of course, was not at home;
Matryosha and myself were left alone. The windows were open. The house
was all inhabited by artisans, and all day long from every floor was
heard the knocking of hammers or of singing. About an hour passed.
Matryosha sat in her room, on a bench, with her back to me, and occupied
with her needle. At last, she suddenly began to sing softly, very
softly, as was sometimes her way. I took out my watch and looked at the
time; it was two o’clock. My heart began beating.[34] I got up and began
approaching her stealthily. On their window-sill stood pots of geranium,
and the sun shone very brightly. I quietly sat down near her on the
floor. She started, and at first was terribly frightened and jumped up.
I took her hand and kissed it quietly, sat her down again on the little
bench, and began looking into her eyes. My kissing her hand made her
suddenly laugh like a baby, but only for one second, because she
impetuously jumped up for the second time and was in such a fright that
a spasm passed across her face. She looked at me with eyes motionless
with terror, and her lips began to twitch as if she were about to cry,
but she did not cry. I kissed her hand again, and took her on my
knee.[35] Then she suddenly pulled herself away and smiled as if
ashamed, with a wry smile. All her face flushed with shame. I was
whispering to her all the time, as though drunk. At last, all of a
sudden, such a strange thing happened, which I shall never forget and
which bewildered me: the little girl flung her arms round my neck and
suddenly began to kiss me passionately. Her face expressed perfect
ecstasy. I almost got up to go away—so unpleasant was this to me in the
little creature from the sense of pity that I suddenly felt.[36]...

Footnote 33:

  Originally “As soon as the three days were over.”

Footnote 34:

  After “beating” is struck out: “but then I suddenly asked myself: can
  I stop now, and I instantly answered that I can.”

Footnote 35:

  Originally “I kissed her face and legs: when I kissed her legs.”

Footnote 36:

  Originally “I wished to get up and go away—so unpleasant was this to
  me in such a tiny child, from a sense of pity. But I overcame the
  sudden sense of my fear and remained.”

“When all was over, she was confused. I did not try to reassure her and
no longer fondled her. She looked at me, smiling timidly. Her face
suddenly appeared to me stupid. The confusion rapidly with each minute
took an increasing hold over her. At last she covered her face with her
hands and stood in the corner with her face to the wall motionless. I
was afraid that she might be frightened again, as she had been just
before, and silently I left the house.

“I think that all that happened must have seemed to her, in the end,
infinitely horrible, a deadly horror. Notwithstanding the Russian swear
words and all sorts of queer conversations that she must have heard from
her very cradle, I am completely convinced that she did not yet know
anything. For indeed it appeared to her in the end that she had
committed an immense crime, and was guilty of a mortal sin. ‘She had
killed God.’

“That night I had the row in the bar which I mentioned in passing. But I
woke up in my rooms in the morning; Lebiadkin took me home. My first
thought when I awoke was whether she had told or not. It was a minute of
real fear, although as yet not very intense. I was very gay that morning
and extremely good-natured with every one, and the whole company was
very pleased with me. But I left them all and went to Gorokhovaya
Street. I met her downstairs in the passage. She was coming in from the
grocer’s shop where she had been sent for chicory. On seeing me she
dashed off in a terrible fright upstairs. When I entered, her mother had
just given her a cuff[37] for bursting in ‘like a maniac,’ and thus the
real reason of her fright was concealed. So far then all was safe. She
hid in a corner and did not come out while I was there. I stayed about
an hour and then went away.

Footnote 37:

  After “cuff” is struck out: “twice on her cheek.”

“Towards evening I again felt the fear, but incomparably more intense.
Of course I could deny all knowledge, but might be given the lie. Penal
servitude glimmered for me in the distance. I had never felt fear, and
all my life, except in this one case, I never before nor after was
afraid of anything—particularly of Siberia, although I might have been
deported there more than once. But this time I was frightened and really
felt fear, I don’t know why, for the first time in my life—a very
tormenting sensation. Besides, that evening in my rooms, I got to hate
her to such an extent that I decided to kill her. My chief hatred was at
the recollection of her smile. I began to feel contempt and immense
loathing for her having, after the whole thing was over, rushed off to
the corner and covered her face with her hands; an inexplicable rage
seized me, and then cold shivering, and, when towards the morning I
began to feel feverish, I was again seized with fear, but such an
intense fear that I never knew any torment more violent. Yet I no longer
hated the little girl—at any rate it did not reach such a paroxysm as on
the previous evening. I realized that intense fear completely drives
away hatred and the feeling of revenge.

“I woke about mid-day, feeling well and surprised even at the force of
yesterday’s sensations. Yet I was in a bad humour and was again
compelled to go to Gorokhovaya Street, in spite of all my aversion. I
remember that I wished intensely at that minute to pick a quarrel on the
way with any one, so long as it was a violent quarrel. But when I
reached Gorokhovaya Street, I suddenly found Nina Savelevna, the maid,
in my room, where she had been waiting for an hour already. I did not
like the girl altogether, so that she had come half afraid that I should
be angry with her for coming unasked. But I suddenly felt very glad to
see her. She was not bad-looking, but unassuming, with those manners of
which common people are very fond, so that my landlady had for long sung
her praises to me. I found them both drinking coffee together, and the
landlady highly pleased with the polite conversation. In the corner of
their room I saw Matryosha. She stood looking at her mother and at the
visitor without stirring. When I came in she did not hide as before and
did not run away. It only appeared to me that she had grown very thin
and was in a fever. I was cordial to Nina, and locked my door against
the landlady, which I had not done for a long time, so that Nina left
perfectly delighted. We left together and for two days I did not return
to Gorokhovaya Street. I was already bored with it. I resolved to put an
end to it all, to give up my rooms and leave Petersburg.

“But when I came to give notice to my landlady, I found her much worried
and distressed: Matryosha had been ill for three days, had a high
temperature, and was delirious every night. Of course I asked what she
said in her delirium (we spoke in whispers in my room); she whispered
back that she raved of ‘horrors’: ‘“I killed God,” she says.’ I offered
to have a doctor at my own expense, but she did not wish it. ‘By God’s
will it will pass without doctors; she is not in bed all the time;
during the day she gets up; she has just run round to the grocer’s
shop.’ I determined to see Matryosha alone, and, as the landlady let out
that she had to go to the Petersburg Road about five o’clock, I decided
to come back in the evening.

“I had a meal in a public-house. Exactly at a quarter past five I
returned. I always let myself in with my key. There was no one there but
Matryosha. She lay on her mother’s bed behind a screen, and I saw her
peep out; but I pretended not to have seen her. All the windows were
open. The air outside was warm, and even hot. I walked up and down and
then sat down on the sofa. I remember everything up to the last moment.
It decidedly gave me pleasure not to speak to Matryosha, but to keep her
in suspense; I don’t know why. I waited a whole hour, when suddenly she
sprang from her bed behind the screen. I heard both her feet thud upon
the floor and then fairly quick steps, and she stood on the threshold of
my room. She stood and looked silently. I was so mean that my heart
thrilled with joy that I had kept up my character and waited for her to
come first. During these days, when I had not once seen her close, she
had grown very thin. Her face had shrunk, and her head, I was sure, was
hot.

“Her eyes had grown large and gazed at me without moving, with a dull
curiosity, as I thought at first. I sat still and looked and did not
move. And then suddenly I felt hatred for her again. But I very soon
noticed that she was not in the least afraid of me, but was perhaps
rather delirious. But she was not delirious either. She suddenly began
shaking her head repeatedly at me, as simple uneducated people without
manners do when they find fault with you. And suddenly she raised her
tiny fist and began threatening from where she stood. The first moment
her gesture seemed to me ridiculous, but then I could stand it no
longer.[38] On her face was such despair as was unendurable to see on a
child’s face. She shook her tiny fist at me all the while threateningly,
and nodded her head reproachfully. I rose and moved towards her in fear,
and warily began saying something softly and kindly, but I saw that she
would not understand. Then suddenly she covered her face impulsively
with both hands, as she had done before, and moved off and stood by the
window with her back to me. I returned to my room and sat by the window.
I cannot possibly make out why I did not leave then, but remained as
though waiting for something. Soon I again heard her quick steps; she
came out of the door on to the wooden landing which led to the stairs. I
hastily ran to my door, opened it, and had just time to see that
Matryosha went into the tiny box-room, which was like a hen-roost and
was next door to the water-closet. A very curious idea shot through my
mind. To this day I can’t make out why all of a sudden this idea came
into my head—everything turned upon it. I half closed the door and sat
down again by the window. Of course, it was still impossible to believe
in this sudden idea:—‘but after all....’ (I remember everything, and my
heart beat violently).

Footnote 38:

  After “no longer” is struck out: “I rose and moved close to her.”

“After a minute I looked at my watch and noted the time with perfect
accuracy. Why I should need to know the time so precisely I don’t know,
but I was able to do it, and altogether at that moment I wanted to
notice everything. So that I remember now what I noticed and see it as
if it were before me. The evening drew on. A fly buzzed about my head
and settled continually on my face. I caught it, held it in my fingers,
and put it out of the window. Very loudly a van entered the courtyard
below. Very loudly (and for some time before) a tailor, sitting at his
window in the corner of the courtyard, sang a song. He sat at his work,
and I could see him there. It struck me that, as nobody had met me when
I passed through the gate and came upstairs, it was also, of course, not
necessary that I should be seen now when I should be going downstairs;
and I moved my chair from the window purposely so that I could not be
seen by the lodgers. I took a book, but threw it away, and began looking
at a tiny reddish spider on the leaf of a geranium, and I fell into a
trance. I remember everything up to the last moment.

“Suddenly I took out my watch. Twenty minutes had passed since she went
out of the room. The conjecture was assuming the shape of a probability.
But I determined to wait precisely fifteen minutes more. It also crossed
my mind that perhaps she had come back, and that I perhaps had not heard
her. But that was impossible: there was a dead silence, and I could hear
the hum of every small fly. Suddenly my heart began bounding again. I
looked at my watch: it was three minutes short of the quarter. I sat
them out, though my heart beat so as to hurt me. Then I got up, put on
my hat, buttoned my overcoat, and looked round the room[39]—had I left
any traces of my visit? I moved the chair closer to the window just as
it had been before. At last I gently opened the door, locked it with my
key, and went to the little box-room. It was closed, but not locked; I
knew that it did not lock, but I did not want to open it, and I stood on
tiptoe and began looking through the chink. At that moment, standing on
tiptoe, I remembered that, when I sat by the window and looked at the
little red spider and fell into a trance, I had been thinking of how I
should stand on tiptoe and peer through this very chink. I mention this
detail because I wish to prove fully to what an extent I was obviously
in possession of my mental faculties and I hold myself responsible for
everything. For a long time I peered through the chink, but it was dark
there, but not absolutely, so that at last I saw what I wanted....[40]

Footnote 39:

  After “room” is struck out: “to see if everything was in its place as
  before.”

Footnote 40:

  After “what I wanted” is struck out: “I wanted all the while to be
  completely sure.”

“At last I decided to leave.[41] I met no one on the stairs. Three hours
later we were all drinking tea in our shirt-sleeves in our rooms and
playing with a pack of old cards; Lebiadkin recited poetry. Many stories
were told, and, as if on purpose, they were good and amusing, and not as
foolish as usual. Kirillov too was there. No one drank, although there
was a bottle of rum, but only Lebiadkin took a pull at it now and then.

Footnote 41:

  Instead of “at last, etc.,” originally stood: “I finally decided that
  I could leave and I went downstairs.”

“Prokhor Malov once said that ‘when Nikolai Vsevolodovich is pleased to
be cheerful and does not sulk, the whole lot of us are happy and talk
cleverly.’ I remembered this at that time; consequently I was merry,
cheerful, and not sulky. This was how it looked. But I remember being
conscious that I was simply a low and despicable coward for my joy at
having escaped and that I should never be an honest man.

“About eleven o’clock the doorkeeper’s little daughter came from the
landlady at Gorokhovaya Street, with a message to me that Matryosha had
hanged herself. I went with the little girl and saw that the landlady
herself did not know why she had sent for me. She wailed aloud and beat
her head[42]; there was a crowd and policemen. I stood about for a
time[43] and went away.

Footnote 42:

  After “beat her head” is struck out: “there was a commotion.”

Footnote 43:

  After “stood” is struck out: “in the lobby.”

“I was scarcely disturbed all that time, yet I was asked the usual
questions. But all I said was that the girl had been ill and delirious,
so that I had offered to call a doctor at my own expense. They also
questioned me about the penknife, and I said that the landlady had
thrashed her, but that there was nothing in that. Nobody knew about my
having been there that evening.[44]

Footnote 44:

  There is struck out “I heard nothing of the result of the medical
  evidence.”

“For about a week I did not call there. I went at last[45] to give
notice about the room. The landlady was still crying, although she was
already messing about with her rags and sewing as usual. ‘It was for
your penknife that I wronged her,’ she said to me, but without much
reproach. I settled my account with her, and gave as an excuse for going
that I could not remain in a house like that to receive Nina Savelevna.
At parting, she again praised Nina Savelevna to me. When I left, I gave
her five roubles over and above what was due for the room.

Footnote 45:

  The words “after she had been long buried” are struck out.

“In the main I was sick of life, to the verge of madness. The incident
in Gorokhovaya Street, after the danger was over, I would have
completely forgotten, just as I forgot all the other events of that
time, had I not for a certain time remembered with anger what a coward I
had been.

“I vented my anger on any one I could find. About that time, altogether
for no definite reason, I took it into my head to cripple my life, but
only in as disgusting a way as possible. Already for about a year I had
been thinking of shooting myself; but something better presented itself.

“One day, as I looked at the lame Marya Timofeevna Lebiadkin, the woman
who in a sense tidied up the rooms, and at that time was not yet mad,
but simply an exalted idiot, in secret madly in love with me (which my
friends had discovered), I suddenly determined to marry her. The idea of
the marriage of Stavrogin with that lowest of creatures excited my
nerves. Anything more monstrous it was impossible to imagine.[46] At any
rate I married her, not simply because of ‘a bet made after dinner in
one’s cups.’ The witnesses were Kirillov and Peter Verkhovensky, who
happened to be in Petersburg; and lastly, Lebiadkin himself and Prokhor
Malov (who is now dead). No one else ever knew of it, and those who did
swore to keep silence. That silence always seemed to me a kind of
meanness, but it has not been broken up till now, although I intended to
make it public; now I make it public as well as the rest.

Footnote 46:

  After the word “imagine” is struck out: “I will not decide one way or
  another whether into my resolution there entered even unconsciously
  (of course, unconsciously) anger for the wild cowardice which had
  possessed me after the affair with Matryosha. Really, I do not think
  so.”

“The wedding over, I went to the country to stay with my mother. I went
to distract myself.[47] In our town I had left behind me the idea that I
was mad—which idea still persists even now and undoubtedly does me harm,
as I shall explain later. After that I went abroad and remained there
four years.

“I was in the East in the monastery on Mount Athos and attended
religious services which lasted eight hours; I was in Egypt, lived in
Switzerland, travelled even in Iceland; spent a whole year at Göttingen
University. During the last year I became very friendly with a
distinguished Russian family in Paris, and with two Russian girls in
Switzerland. About two years ago, in Frankfort, passing a stationer’s
shop, I noticed amongst the photographs for sale a portrait of a little
girl, dressed in an elegant childish dress, but very much like
Matryosha.

Footnote 47:

  After “distract” is struck out: “and because it had become
  intolerable.”

I bought the portrait at once, and when I returned to my hotel I put it
on the mantelpiece of my room. There it lay for a week untouched, and I
did not once look at it; and when I left Frankfort I forgot to take it
with me.

“I mention this fact only to prove to what an extent I could master my
memories and had become indifferent to them. I dismissed the whole lot
of them at one go _en masse_, and the whole mass obediently disappeared,
each time, directly I wished it to disappear. To recall the past always
bored me, and I never could talk about the past, as nearly all people
do, the more so that it was, like everything else concerning me, hateful
to me. As for Matryosha, I even forgot to take her picture from the
mantelpiece. About a year ago, in the spring, travelling through
Germany, I forgot absentmindedly to get out at the station where I had
to change, and so went on the wrong line. At the next station I had to
get out; it was past two o’clock in the afternoon and a fine bright day.
It was a tiny German town. I was shown to a hotel. I had to wait, for
the next train did not arrive until eleven o’clock at night. I was even
pleased with my adventure, as I was in no hurry to get anywhere. The
hotel turned out a wretched little place, but it was all wooded and
surrounded with flower-beds. I was given a very small room. I made a
large meal, and, as I had been travelling all night, I fell sound asleep
after lunch at about four o’clock in the afternoon.

“In my sleep I had a dream which was completely new to me, for I had
never had one like it. In the Dresden gallery there is a picture by
Claude Lorraine, called in the catalogue, I think, ‘Acis and Galatea,’
but I always called it ‘The Golden Age,’ I don’t know why. I had seen it
before, but about three days ago, as I passed through Dresden, I saw it
again. I even went on purpose to have a look at it, and possibly for
this alone I stopped at Dresden. It was that picture I dreamt of, but
not as of a picture, but as of a reality.

“A corner of the Greek Archipelago; blue caressing waves, islands and
rocks; fertile shore, a magic vista on the horizon, the appeal of the
setting sun—no words could describe it. Here was the cradle of European
man, here were the first scenes of the mythological world, here its
green paradise.... Here had once lived a beautiful race. They rose and
went to sleep happy and innocent; they filled the woods with their
joyful songs; the great abundance of their virgin powers went out into
love and into simple happiness. The sun bathed these islands and sea in
its beams, rejoicing in its beautiful children. Wonderful dream,
splendid illusion! A dream the most incredible of all that had ever been
dreamt, but upon it the whole of mankind has lavished all its powers
throughout history; for this it has made every sacrifice, for this men
have died on the cross and their prophets have been killed; without
this, nations will not live and are unable even to die. I lived through
all these feelings in my dream; I do not know what exactly I dreamt
about, but the rocks, the sea, and the slanting rays of the setting
sun—all these seemed to be still visible to me, when I woke and opened
my eyes and, for the first time in my life, found them full of tears. A
feeling of happiness, until then unfamiliar to me, went through my whole
heart, even painfully. It was now evening; through the window of my tiny
room, through the green leaves of the flowers standing on the sill,
poured a shaft of bright slanting rays from the setting sun, and bathed
me in their light. I quickly shut my eyes again, as if longing to bring
back the vanished dream, but suddenly, in the middle of the bright,
bright light, I saw a tiny point. The point began suddenly to take a
definite form, and all of a sudden I distinctly pictured to myself a
tiny reddish spider. At once I remembered it on the leaf of the
geranium, upon which, too, had poured the rays of the setting sun. It
was as though something were plunged through me; I raised myself and sat
on my bed.

“(That’s all how it happened then!)

“I saw before me! (Oh, not in the flesh! Would that the vision had been
true!) I saw before me Matryosha, emaciated, with feverish eyes, in
every point exactly as she was when she stood on the threshold of my
room and, shaking her head at me, threatened me with her tiny fist.
Nothing has ever been so agonizing to me! The pitiable despair of a
helpless creature[48] with an unformed mind, threatening me (with what?
what could she do to me, O Lord?), but blaming, of course, herself
alone! Nothing like that has ever happened to me. I sat, till night
came, without moving, having lost count of time. Is this what they call
remorse or repentance? I do not know, and even now cannot say.[49] But
it was intolerable to me, that image of her standing on the threshold
with her raised and threatening little fist, merely that vision of her
then, that moment ‘then,’ that shaking of her head. It is precisely that
which I cannot endure, because since then it has come to me almost every
day. Not that it comes itself, but that I bring it before myself and
cannot help bringing it, although I can’t live with it. Oh, if I could
ever see her in the flesh, even though it were an hallucination![50]

Footnote 48:

  After “creature” is struck out: “of ten years.”

Footnote 49:

  After “even now” is struck out: “The recollection of the deed itself
  is perhaps not even now loathsome to me. Perhaps the memory of it even
  now contains something which is gratifying to my passions.”

Footnote 50:

  After “hallucination” is struck out: “I have other old memories,
  perhaps, worse than this. There was a woman whom I treated worse, and
  she died of it. I killed two men in a duel who had done me no harm. I
  was once mortally insulted, and did not avenge myself. I have it to my
  account that I poisoned some one, deliberately and successfully,
  without being found out. If necessary, I will confess it all.”

“Why, then, do no other of the memories of my life rouse in me anything
like this?—and I had indeed many memories, perhaps much worse in the
judgment of men. They rouse merely hatred in me, and that only because
they are stimulated by my present state; but formerly I forgot them
callously and dismissed them from my mind.

“I wandered after that for nearly the whole of the following year, and
tried to find some occupation. I know I can dismiss the thought of
Matryosha even now whenever I want to. I am as completely master of my
will as ever. But the whole point is that I never wanted to do it; I
myself do not want to, and never shall.[51] So it will go on until I go
mad.

Footnote 51:

  After “shall” is struck out: “of this I am perfectly sure.”

“In Switzerland two months later I was seized with a fit of the same
passion and one of the same furious impulses which I used to have
before.[52] I felt a terrible temptation to commit a new crime, namely,
to commit bigamy (for I was already married). But I fled on the advice
of another girl to whom I had confided almost everything, even that I
had no love for her whom I desired so much, and that I could never love
any one. Moreover, the fresh crime would not in any way rid me of
Matryosha.

Footnote 52:

  Originally “In Switzerland I was able two months after that to fall in
  love with a girl, or, to speak more accurately, I experienced a fit,
  etc.”

“Thus I decided to have these little sheets printed and three hundred
copies sent to Russia. When the time comes, I shall send some of them to
the police and to the local authorities; simultaneously I shall send
them to the editors of all newspapers with a request that they shall be
published; I shall also send them to a number of people in Petersburg
and in Russia who know me. They will also come out in a translation
abroad. I know that I shall, perhaps, not be worried by the law, at any
rate not to any considerable extent. It is I who am informing against
myself and I have no accuser; besides, the evidence is extraordinarily
slight or non-existent. Finally, the rooted idea that I am mentally
unbalanced and, certainly, the efforts of my family, who will make use
of that idea, will quash any legal prosecution that might threaten me.
By the way, I make this statement in order to prove that I am now of
sound mind and understand my situation. But there will remain those who
will know everything and will look at me, and I at them.[53] I want
every one to look at me. Will it relieve me? I don’t know. I come to
this as to my last resource.

Footnote 53:

  Originally “And the more of those, the better.”

“Once more: if a good search be made by the Petersburg police, perhaps
something might be discovered. The landlady and her husband might be
living even now in Petersburg. The house, of course, must be remembered.
It was painted a bright sky-blue. For myself, I shall not go anywhere,
and for a certain length of time (a year or two) I shall always be found
at Skvoreshniki, my mother’s estate. If required, I will appear
anywhere.

          “NIKOLAI STAVROGIN.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             CHAPTER IX[54]

Footnote 54:

  This is how the chapter is numbered in the original.

THE reading lasted for about an hour. Tikhon read slowly, and, possibly,
read certain passages twice over. All the time Stavrogin had sat silent
and motionless.[55] Tikhon took off his glasses, paused, and, looking up
at him, was the first to begin to speak rather guardedly.

Footnote 55:

  After “motionless” the following is struck out: “It is strange that
  the signs of impatience, absentmindedness, and even of delirium, that
  had been in his face all that morning, almost disappeared, and gave
  place to calmness and a kind of sincerity, that gave him an air almost
  of dignity.”

“Can’t certain corrections be made in this document?”

“Why should there? I wrote sincerely,” Stavrogin replied.

“Some corrections in the style should....”

“I forgot to warn you,” he said quickly and peremptorily, pulling
himself up, “that all you say will be useless; I shall not postpone my
intention; don’t try to dissuade me. I shall publish it.”

“You did not forget to tell me that, before I began to read.”

“Never mind,” Stavrogin interrupted peremptorily, “I repeat it again:
however great the force of your objections may be, I shall not give up
my intention. And observe that, by this clumsy or clever phrase—think of
it what you like—I am not trying to get you at once to start arguing and
coaxing me.”[56]

Footnote 56:

  After “coaxing” is struck out: “he added, as though he could no longer
  keep it up, and suddenly fell again for a moment into his former tone,
  but he immediately smiled sadly at his words.”

“I shall not argue with you, still less coax you, to give up your
intention, nor could I do it either. Your idea is a great idea, and it
would be impossible to express more perfectly a Christian idea.
Repentance cannot go further than the wonderful deed which you have
conceived, if only....”

“If only what?”

“If it were indeed repentance and indeed a Christian idea.”

“I wrote sincerely.”[57]

Footnote 57:

  Before the words “I wrote sincerely” there is struck out: “This seems
  to me a subtlety; does this really matter....”

“You seem deliberately to wish to make yourself out coarser than your
heart would desire....” Tikhon gradually became bolder. Evidently “the
document” made a strong impression on him.

“‘Make myself out’? I repeat to you, I did not ‘make myself out,’ still
less did I ‘pose.’”[58]

Footnote 58:

  The phrase “Make myself out, etc.,” is struck out.

Tikhon quickly cast his eyes down.

“This document comes straight from the needs of a heart which is
mortally wounded,—am I not right in this?” he said emphatically and with
extraordinary earnestness. “Yes, it is repentance and natural need of
repentance that has overcome you, and you have taken the great way, the
rarest way. But you, it seems, already hate and despise beforehand all
those who will read what is written here, and you challenge them. You
were not ashamed of admitting your crime; why are you ashamed of
repentance?”

“Ashamed?”

“You are ashamed and afraid!”

“Afraid?”

“Mortally. Let them look at me, you say; well, and you, how will you
look at them? Certain passages in your statement are emphasized; you
seem to be luxuriating in your own psychology and clutch at each detail,
in order to surprise the reader by a callousness which is not really in
you. What is this but a haughty defiance of the judge by the accused?”

“Where is the defiance? I kept out all personal discussion.”

Tikhon was silent. His pale cheeks flushed.

“Let us leave that,” Stavrogin said peremptorily. “Allow me to put to
you a question on my side: we have now been talking for five minutes
since you read that” (he nodded at the pages), “and I do not see in you
any expression of aversion or shame.... You don’t seem to be
squeamish....”

He did not finish.[59]

Footnote 59:

  After “he did not finish” is struck out: “You mean you would like me
  immediately to express to you my contempt,” Tikhon said firmly.

“I shall not conceal anything from you: I was horrified at the great
idle force that had been deliberately wasted in abomination. As for the
crime itself, many people sin like that, but they live in peace and
quiet with their conscience, even considering it to be the inevitable
delinquency of youth. There are old men, too, who sin in the same
way—yes, lightly and indulgently. The world is full of these horrors.
But you have felt the whole depth to a degree which is extremely rare.”

“Have you come to respect me after these pages?” Stavrogin said, with a
wry smile.

“I am not going to answer that straight off. But there certainly is not,
nor can there be, a greater and more terrible crime than your behaviour
towards the girl.”

“Let us stop this measuring by the yard.[60] Perhaps I do not suffer so
much as I have made out, and perhaps I have even told many lies against
myself,” he added suddenly.

Footnote 60:

  There is struck out: “I am somewhat surprised at your opinion about
  other people and about the ordinariness of such a crime.”

Tikhon once more let this pass in silence.[61]

Footnote 61:

  After the sentence “Tikhon, etc.,” is struck out: “Stavrogin had no
  thought of going away; on the contrary he began again for some minutes
  to fall into a reverie.”

“And the young lady,”[62] Tikhon began again, “with whom you broke off
in Switzerland; where, if I may ask, is she ... at this moment?”

Footnote 62:

  After “lady” is struck out: “very timidly.”

“Here.”

There was silence again.

“Perhaps I did lie much against myself,” Stavrogin persisted once more.
“Well, what does it matter that I challenge them by the coarseness of my
confession, if you noticed the challenge? I shall make them hate me
still more, that’s all. Surely that will make it easier for me.”[63]

Footnote 63:

  All this passage, from “Well” to “easier for me,” is struck out.

“That is, anger in you will rouse responsive anger in them, and, in
hating, you will feel easier than if you accepted their pity.”

“You are right. You understand.” He laughed suddenly. “They may perhaps
call me a Jesuit and sanctimonious hypocrite after the document, ha, ha,
ha! Yes?”

“Certainly there is sure to be some such opinion. And do you expect to
carry out your intention soon?”

“To-day, to-morrow, the day after to-morrow, how do I know? But very
soon. You are right: I think, indeed, it will in the end happen that I
shall publish it unexpectedly, and, indeed, in a revengeful, hateful
moment, when I hate them most.”

“Answer me one question, but sincerely, to me alone, only to me,” Tikhon
said in quite a different voice; “if some one forgave you for this”
(Tikhon pointed at the pages), “and not one of those whom you respect or
fear, but a stranger, a man whom you will never know, if, reading your
terrible confession, he forgave you, in the privacy of his heart—would
you feel relieved, or would it be just the same to you?”

“I should feel easier,” Stavrogin said in an undertone. “If you forgave
me, I should feel very much relieved,” he added, casting his eyes down.

“Provided that you forgive me too,” Tikhon murmured in a penetrating
voice.[64]

Footnote 64:

  After the words “Tikhon murmured, etc.,” there is struck out: “For
  what? What have you done to me? Ah, yes, it is the monastic
  formula!”—“For voluntary and involuntary sin. Every man who commits a
  sin has already sinned against all, and every man is in some way
  guilty for another’s sin. There is no solitary sin. As for me I am a
  great sinner, and perhaps worse than you.”

“It is false humility. All these monastic formulas, you know, are not
fine in the least. I will tell you the whole truth: I want you to
forgive me. And besides you—one or two more, but as for the rest—let the
rest rather hate me. But I want this, so that I may bear it with
humility....”

“And universal pity for you—could you not bear it with the same
humility?”

“Perhaps I could not.[65] Why do you....”[66]

Footnote 65:

  After “I could not” is struck out: “You understand very finely,
  but....”

Footnote 66:

  After “Why do you” is struck out: “do this.”

“I feel the extent of your sincerity and am, of course, very much to
blame, but I am not good at approaching people. I have always felt it a
great fault in myself,” Tikhon said sincerely and intimately, looking
straight into Stavrogin’s eyes. “I just say this, because I am afraid
for you,” he added; “there is an almost impassable abyss before you.”

“That I shan’t be able to bear it? Not able to endure[67] their hatred?”
Stavrogin gave a start.

Footnote 67:

  After “endure” is struck out: “with humility.”

“Not their hatred alone.”

“What else?”

“Their laughter.” Tikhon half whispered these words, as if it were more
than he had strength for.

Stavrogin blushed; his face expressed alarm.

“I foresaw it,” he said; “I must have appeared to you a very comic
character after your reading of my ‘document.’[68] Don’t be
uncomfortable. Don’t look disconcerted. I expected it.”

Footnote 68:

  After the word “document” is struck out: “in spite of all the
  tragedy.”

“The horror will be universal and, of course, more false than sincere.
People fear only what directly threatens their personal interests. I am
not talking of pure souls: they will be horrified in themselves and will
blame themselves, but no notice will be taken of them—besides they will
keep silent. But the laughter will be universal.”[69]

Footnote 69:

  After “the laughter will be universal” is struck out: “and add to it
  the remark of the philosopher that in other people’s misfortune there
  is always something gratifying to us.”—“That is true.”—“Yet ... you
  ... yourself.”

“I am surprised what a low opinion you have of people and how they
disgust you.” Stavrogin spoke with some show of anger.

“Believe me, I judged rather by myself than by other people!” Tikhon
exclaimed.

“Indeed? but is there also something in your soul that makes you amused
at my misery?”

“Who knows, perhaps there is? oh, perhaps there is!”

“Enough. Tell me, then, where exactly am I ridiculous in my manuscript?
I know myself, but I want you to put your finger on it. And tell it as
cynically as possible, tell me with all the sincerity of which you are
capable. And I repeat to you again that you are a terribly queer
fellow.”

“In the very form of this great penance there is something ridiculous.
Oh, don’t let yourself think that you won’t conquer!” he suddenly
exclaimed, almost in ecstasy. “Even this form will conquer” (he pointed
to the pages), “if only you sincerely accept the blows and the spitting.
It always ended in the most ignominious cross becoming a great glory and
a great strength, if the humility of the deed was sincere. Perhaps even
in your lifetime you will be comforted!...”

“So you find something ridiculous in the form itself?”[70] Stavrogin
insisted.

Footnote 70:

  After “form” is struck out: “in the style.”

“And in the substance. The ugliness of it will kill it,” Tikhon said in
a whisper, looking down.

“Ugliness! what ugliness?”

“Of the crime. There are truly ugly crimes. Crimes, whatever they be,
the more blood, the more horror in them, the more imposing they are, so
to say, more picturesque. But there are crimes shameful, disgraceful,
past all horror, they are, so to say, almost too inelegant....”

Tikhon did not finish.

“You mean to say,” Stavrogin caught him up in agitation, “you find me a
very ridiculous figure when I kissed the hands of the dirty little
girl....[71] I understand you very well, and that is why you despair for
me, that it is ugly, revolting—not precisely revolting, but shameful,
ridiculous, and you think that that is what I shall least of all be able
to bear.”

Footnote 71:

  After “dirty little girl” is struck out: “and all that I said about my
  temperament and, well, all the rest ... I see.”

Tikhon was silent.[72]

Footnote 72:

  After “Tikhon was silent” is struck out: “Yes, you know people, that
  is, you know that I shan’t bear this.”

“I understand why you asked about the young lady from Switzerland,
whether she was here.”

“You are not prepared, not hardened,” Tikhon said timidly in a whisper,
casting his eyes down; “you are uprooted, you do not believe.”

“Listen, Father Tikhon: I want to forgive myself, and that is my object,
my whole object!” Stavrogin suddenly said with gloomy ecstasy in his
eyes. “Then only, I know, that vision will disappear. That is why I seek
boundless suffering. I seek it myself. Don’t make me afraid, or I shall
die in anger.”

The sincerity was so unexpected that Tikhon got up.

“If you believe that you can forgive yourself and attain that
forgiveness in this world through your suffering; if you set that object
before you with faith, then you already believe completely!” Tikhon
exclaimed rapturously. “Why did you say, then, that you did not believe
in God?”

Stavrogin made no answer.

“For your unbelief God will forgive you, for you respect the Holy Spirit
without knowing Him.”

“Christ will forgive too?” asked Stavrogin, with a wry smile and in a
quickly changed tone; and in the tone of his question a suspicion of
irony could be heard.

“It says in the Book: ‘And whosoever shall offend one of these little
ones,’ you remember. According to the Gospel there is no greater
crime....”[73]

Footnote 73:

  The fourteenth proof-sheet ends here—there appears to be something
  missing.

“Quite plainly, you don’t want a row, and you are laying a trap for me,
venerable Father Tikhon,” Stavrogin muttered scornfully and with
annoyance, making as if to get up; “in a word, you want me to settle
down, to marry, perhaps, and end my life as a member of the local club,
and visit your monastery on holidays. Why, that’s penance! isn’t it so?
though as a reader of hearts you, perhaps, foresee that it will
certainly be so, and all that is needed now is for me to be nicely
wheedled into it for form’s sake, since I am only too eager for
that,—isn’t it so?”

He gave a wry smile.

“No, not that penance, I am preparing another for you!” Tikhon went on
earnestly, without taking the least notice of Stavrogin’s smile and
remark.

“I know an old man, a hermit and ascetic, not here, but not far from
here, of such great Christian wisdom that he is even beyond your and my
understanding. He will listen to my request. I will tell him about you.
Go to him, into retreat, as a novice under his guidance, for five years,
for seven, for as many as you find necessary. Make a vow to yourself,
and by this great sacrifice you will acquire all that you long for and
don’t even expect, for you cannot possibly realize now what you will
obtain.”

Stavrogin listened gravely.

“You suggest that I enter the monastery as a monk.”[74]

Footnote 74:

  After the word “monk” is struck out: “However much I respect you, I
  ought to have expected this. Well, I must confess to you, that in
  moments of cowardice this idea has occurred to me—once having made
  these pages universally known, to hide from people in a monastery, be
  it only for a time. But I blushed at the meanness of it. But to take
  orders as a monk, that did not occur to me even in moments of most
  cowardly fear.”

“You must not be in the monastery, nor take orders as a monk; be only a
lay-brother, a secret, not an open one; it may be that, even living
altogether in society....”

“Enough, Father Tikhon.” Stavrogin interrupted him with aversion and
rose from his chair. Tikhon also rose.

“What is the matter with you?” he suddenly exclaimed almost in fear,
staring at Tikhon. Tikhon stood before him, with his hands clasped, and
a painful convulsion seemed to pass for a moment across his face as if
from the greatest fear.

“What’s the matter with you? What’s the matter?” Stavrogin repeated,
rushing to him in order to support him. It seemed to him that Tikhon was
going to fall.

“I see ... I see, as if it stood before me,” Tikhon exclaimed in a voice
which penetrated the soul and with an expression of the most violent
grief, “that you, poor, lost youth, have never been so near another and
a still greater crime than you are at this moment.”

“Calm yourself!” pleaded Stavrogin, decidedly alarmed for him. “Perhaps
I shall still postpone it.... You are right....”

“No, not after the publication, but before it, a day, an hour, perhaps,
before the great step, you will throw yourself on a new crime, as a way
out, and you will commit it solely in order to avoid the publication of
these pages.”

Stavrogin shuddered with anger and almost with fear.[75] “You cursed
psychologist!”—he suddenly cut him short in fury and, without looking
round, left the cell.

Footnote 75:

  The words “Stavrogin, etc.,” are struck out and several variants
  substituted, none of which, evidently, satisfied Dostoevsky.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           PLAN OF THE NOVEL

                      _THE LIFE OF A GREAT SINNER_

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      _THE LIFE OF A GREAT SINNER_

                                                                 Page 8.

20/8 December.

—Accumulation of wealth.

—The birth of strong passions.

—Strengthening of the will and of the inner powers.

—Measureless pride and struggle with ambition.

—The prose of life and a passionate belief that incessantly overcomes
it.

—That all should plead; I only demand.

—Not to be afraid of anything. The sacrifices of life.

—The influence of vice; the horror and coldness from it.

—A desire to defile every one.

—The romance of the years of childhood. Maccary.[76]

Footnote 76:

  This is in Roman letters in Dostoevsky’s MS.

—Schooling and first ideals.

—Gets to know everything secretly.

—Alone, to prepare himself for anything.

(He is incessantly preparing himself for something, although he does not
know for what, and—what is strange—he does not care about _the what_, as
though perfectly sure that it will come of itself.)

—Either slavery or domination. He believes. And that only. Unbelief for
the first time—strangely springing up and taking shape only in the
monastery. The little lame girl. Katya. Brother Misha. The Stolen Money.
Underwent punishment. Fearlessness. A Cornfield. Do not kill me, Uncle.
Love of Kulikov. John. Brutilov. The Frenchman Pougot. Upbraids
Brutilov. Goes on with his studies. The diver. _Albert._[77] Shibo.
Receiving the communion. _Albert_ does not believe in God. The old
people. Loves a great many things secretly and keeps them to himself.
They call him a brute and thus he behaves like a brute. Passionate
desire to surprise all by unexpectedly impertinent tricks? But not from
ambition. By himself. The old people. Songs, Therese-Philosophe John,
Brin, Brutilov—Brother, _Albert_. Friends, and yet they torture a
friend; disgusting. A meek, good and pure friend before whom he blushes.
Training himself by hardships and accumulating money. _Humboldt._

Footnote 77:

  Throughout the MS. Dostoevsky writes this name and Lambert (see below)
  in Roman characters.

They immediately inform him that he is not their brother.

He makes friends with Kulikov. The lady doctor. He sees her in a halo. A
passionate desire to foul himself, to degrade himself in her eyes, but
not to please her. A theft took place. They accuse him, he exculpates
himself, but the affair becomes clear. The step-brother committed the
theft.

                                                                 Page 7.

[Sidenote: A strong and permanent trait.]

Disrespect for the people round him, but this is not yet based on
reason, but solely on a repulsion for them. Much repulsion. I eat
grapes. He is beaten and flogged for his repulsion. He only shuts
himself up in himself and hates still more. Haughty contempt for his
persecutors, and rapidity of judgment. Extraordinary quickness of
judgment signifies a strong passionate individuality. He begins to feel
that he ought not to make quick judgments and for this he must
strengthen his will.

[Sidenote: First signs of expansiveness.]

[Sidenote: The mother’s boys are at Sushar’s and at Chermak’s. (Their
           repulsion comes from stupidity.)]

—It is a lie, mon Mushvar.

Arkashka and French conversations.

Arkashka, Brutilov and himself keep together.

At Sushar’s—only Brutilov and his history; altogether two chapters—

All up. Because he slapped Sushar. The beginning of _Albert_.

The boarding-school. An unjust punishment takes place in the house.
Exams. In the country. Self-renunciation. Katya. In the town and in the
boarding-school he surprises by his brutality. _Lambert._ Heroic acts—to
run away with Katya. Kulikov, with him. Murder. He does not forgive any
lie or falsehood and without reasoning instantly rushes into a fight.
For a long time he does not believe Katya, then he put her to the test
and at last intimidated her with the disgrace.

—Strength of will—this he set before himself as the chief thing.

—After Kulikov, he immediately goes to ask about the lame girl.

Just here they caught him.

—In the country the lady doctor falls in love with him.

He caught her with a lover.

The lady doctor. Mr. Alfonsky—characters.

                                                                 Page 9.

At the house of the old people. With the old man—reading Karamzin,
Arabian tales—On Suvorov, etc. On interest on money. He offended the
younger old lady. Ask pardon, I do not want to. He locked them in.
Death. Anna and Vasilissa ran away. They sold Vasilissa. The last
communion. The first confession. Repulsion. Is there a God? Bible and
reading.

                               January 2.

He smashed the mirror deliberately.

He decides to keep silent and not to say a single word—

—St. mother: why do you make a show of yourself as a sacrifice? (An
ideal and strange creature.)

Alfonsky, the father. (His speeches to his son and aspirations.)

—A feeling of destruction.

[Sidenote: How many sciences must one know (his conversation with
           Vanka).]

—Voluptuousness (he wants to remain in this state until he has money).

—And the enormous idea of domination (a direct feeling) is hidden so
deep in him that he does not feel able, by himself, to adjust himself to
these people.

He is surprised at himself, puts himself to the test, and loves to
plunge into the abyss—

—The running away with the little girl and the murderer Kulikov
immediately after his removal from Sushar’s to Chermak’s. (The fact
which produces an overwhelming effect on him and which has even somewhat
unsettled him so that he feels a natural need to contract inwardly and
to reflect so as to lean on something.) He leans after all on money.

[Sidenote: Of God meanwhile he does not think.]

[Sidenote: His silence ends after a year and a half by his confession
           about Kulikov.]

After Kulikov, he is humble at home and in the boarding-school in order
to reflect and

find himself,

to concentrate.

—But he is unsociable and uncommunicative, nor could it be otherwise,
remembering and knowing such a horror, and looking at all the other
children, for instance, as at something perfectly alien to him, from
which he had fled away into another path, into a good path or a bad one—

The blood at times torments him. But the _chief thing_:

[Sidenote: (He is violently carried away by something, by _Hamlet_, for
           instance.)

           The Inhabitants of the Moon.]

It is not this alone that isolates him from everybody, but really his
dreams of power and his enormous height above everything.

From that height he is kept back by science, poetry, etc., _i.e._ in the
sense that these are higher things and that it is therefore necessary
that he should be higher and better in them too.

Only to prepare oneself, but he is strangely _certain_ that it will all
come by itself. Money will solve _all_ questions.

_The chief thing._ The meaning of the first part—Hesitation, insatiable
desire for the ideal, instinctive consciousness of superiority, power
and strength. Looking for a fixed point to rest upon. But at any rate an
unusual man.

                                                            Page 11.[78]

Footnote 78:

  At the top of page 11 is the sentence: “Scenes (cows, tigers, horses,
  etc.).”

or better:—Not a single dream of what to be and what’s his vocation
prevented him from amassing money.

—But doubt is always solved by the necessity of money and the chance of
amassing a fortune (he sells himself to the men-servants).

[Sidenote: Concerning a horse that went mad, or a fire.]

The father gave him a flogging—a rupture between them—I do not consider
you my father.

—He sells himself to the men-servants, and for this he is held in
general contempt, but

—Finds a pocket-book—the infatuation that possessed him finally on
account of his exam.—he nearly yields.

But after this the history of Katya’s disgrace, and then the hellish
debauchery with _Albert_, crime and blasphemy and denouncing himself as
accessory to the murder with Kulikov—_straight into the abyss_. The
Monastery.

—Although money concentrates him terribly on a certain _firm_ point and
solves _all_ questions, at times the _point_ wavers (poetry and many
other things) and he cannot find a way out. This state of _wavering_
forms the novel.

—Strengthening of his will, wounds and burns—feed his pride. He wishes
to be ready for anything.

—He made up his mind to make money in an honest way. His hesitation with
regard to the pocket-book.

—Since a great many things at times _move_ him sincerely, in a terrible
fit of spite and pride he plunges into debauchery.

(_This is the chief thing._)

—His estrangement from people was furthered by the fact that they all
looked upon him as an eccentric and laughed or feared him.

—A broken head (pantalons en haut), he is ill.

Then Chermak left him alone. (Mango.)

—By the process of thinking he arrived at the conclusion, for instance,
that it is not necessary to act _dishonestly_, because acting _honestly_
he would make money even _better_, since to the rich all privileges for
any evil are granted even without that.

—_Albert_ and he steal a star from the crown and escape successfully
(_he_ incited), but when _Albert_ began to blaspheme, he began beating
him. And then he declared himself before the court as an atheist.

—Idea: that he could gain a still greater power by flattery, like Von
Brin.

But no—he thinks—I want to reach the same end without flattery.

                                                                Page 12.

I myself am God, and he makes Katya worship him. (God knows what he does
with her. “I shall love you then when you can do everything.”)

—In the vagaries of his imagination he has endless dreams, up to the
overthrow of God and putting himself in the place of God. (Kulikov had a
strong influence.)

_Problem._ Memento.

     To find the mean    │Act 1. Early Childhood, the old man and
     proportional.       │  woman.

                         │" 2. The family, Sushar, the running
                         │  away and Kulikov—

                         │" 3. Chermak—exams.

                         │" 4. The Country and Katya, debauchery
                         │  with _Albert_.

                           20 Childhood.
                           20 Monastery.
                           40 Before deportation.
                           20 Woman and Satan.
                           40 Heroic Acts.

—Repulsion for people from the very first consciousness as a child
(through the passion of a proud and domineering nature). Out of
contempt:

—“I will carry it with a high hand, shan’t degrade myself with the
flattery and dexterity of a Brin.”

—And this too is from repulsion for people and from contempt for them
from the earliest years of childhood—

—“Oh, if I only took upon myself the rôle of a flatterer like Brin,—what
could I not achieve!”

—And begins at times to reason: “Shall I not become a flatterer? (he
consults the lame girl about it). This too is a power of the spirit—to
_endure oneself as a flatterer_. But no, I do not want it, it is
foul—besides I shall have an instrument—money, so that they,
willy-nilly, whether they choose or not, will all come to me and bow to
me.”

                                    With Kulikov he displays his
                                    spiritual power.

                                    Kulikov does not kill him; but
                                    the murderer, the runaway
                                    soldier, they killed together.

 13
  2
 27
 12
  3
  5
 —
 35 years ago
 born in 1835.

If any one overheard his dreams, he believes he would die; but he
confesses himself in everything to the lame girl.

—Whatever he reads, he tells in a peculiar way of his own to the lame
girl.

—“A slap in the face is the greatest offence.” With blood.—

—The first organized dream of the significance of money.

—The lame girl keeps everything _he_ is telling her secret—she does it
without thinking, without his command, having subtly realized it for
herself, so that in most cases he does not remind her of the necessity
of keeping things secret.

The lame girl does not agree to become an atheist.

He does not beat her for that.

                                                                Page 13.

—A single, but detailed psychological analysis of how writers, for
instance, “The Hero of Our Time” (Lermontov), affect a child.

—The indignation of a child at the guests as they arrive; at the
frankness and impertinence which they allow themselves. (Uvar) “How dare
they?”—the child thinks.

—The fall of the old couple.

—The theatre. Sit on my knees—

—They flog him for his repulsion.

—When he and the little girl come to live with the Alfonskys, he tells
her not to say a word about Gogol or about what concerns us, about
travels. She should not say a word.—

—He has read an immense amount (Walter Scott, etc.).

—At the Alfonskys—not brothers. He is made to feel it.

—He pretends to be rude, undeveloped, and a fool.

—With the men-servants.

—Mrs. Alfonsky suggests the idea that they should not mix with the
children.

—At Sushar’s. Alfonsky flogs him. It turns out to be for no fault.

—Mrs. Alfonsky has invented, the running away. With Kulikov—Caught.

—A guest: they call him. They examine him. Candid thoughts.

The guest is surprised.—The house is set on fire, or something—illness.

—_Alfonsky delivers speeches._

—At Chermak’s. Progress in studies, reading. Exam.

—After Exam. Alfonsky makes some one fall in love with—Alfonsky
questions.

For the lame girl. With Katya. A cornfield.—Family scenes—Alfonsky, his
friend, a box on the ear.

                         In Moscow, _Lambert_—

About classical education at Chermak’s (Herr Teider).

                             --------------

                                Jan. 27

He is astonished that all these (grown up) people completely believe in
their nonsense, and are much more stupid and insignificant than they
seem from the outside.

(One of the _scholarly_ guests, falls down intoxicated and goes with
gypsies in the Maryin Woods.)

A period of unbelief in God. Essential to write how the New Testament
had affected him. He agrees with the Gospel.

The chief thing meantime is his own _I_ and his interests. Philosophical
questions engage him in so far as they touch him.

                                                            Page 14.[79]

Footnote 79:

  On this sheet Dostoevsky noted: _To begin to send out on Feb. 22, Jan.
  27._ Under the name of _Lambert_ stands the name of the author. On the
  top are several dates—Feb. 10, 15, 22.

_Lambert._

The lame girl: and I will tell how you said that you will be a king (or
something ludicrous).

—He wounds her for this—

     _Lambert_ and _he_—a complete  Of what does he speak with the
     picture of depravity. But      lame girl? Of all his dreams—
     _Lambert_ is intoxicated with
     it and finds nothing higher
     than this. National levity.

     But _he_ plunges into          When I am grown up, I shall
     debauchery with an             marry not you. So that it is
     irresistible desire, but also  not necessary to say he dreamt
     with fear. The hollowness,     of this or that, but he went
     dirt, and absurdity of         to the lame girl and said to
     immorality astonish him. He    her this or that. Of what he
     gives it all up and after      will be and of money. _He beat
     terrible crimes he denounces   her_ _because the money did
     himself with bitterness.       not increase._

                                    He talked to her about the
                                    reading of Karamzin, tales,
                                    etc. He was taught French and
                                    German by the young lady, the
                                    old, etc. They went for their
                                    lessons to other children
                                    (there they made fun of him).

                                    Because the lame girl did not
                                    flare into a passion for
                                    Karamzin—he beat her.

                                    He knew the whole Bible—he
                                    told her.

                                    —The history of the world—but
                                    was weak in geography.

     (Dreams of travels, Kul and    He meets Umnov who proves that
     the lame girl.) They read      he knows more than he. Coming
     novels.—He is highly developed home he tells the lame girl
     and knows a great deal about   that Umnov is a fool and knows
     many things. He knows Gogol    nothing and gave the lame girl
     and Pushkin. He never pretends a slight beating; after that
     tenderness for the lame girl   he pays great attention to
     until the time when he carried Umnov.
     her in his arms.—

―――――――――――――――

Do it—cut me off, I don’t want you to study together with my children.

—When the old couple used to be very drunk and roll about, the lame girl
used to cry over them. At first he beat her, but then ceased.

—They killed a goose.—

—The Bible. Jacob bowed three times. He gets muddled with the Bible. The
lame girl laughs.

—The habit of beating her; he did not want to kiss her.

                                    (The lame girl was not frozen
                                    to death.

                                    They found her. But she
                                    disappeared from the house of
                                    the Alfonskys.)

His incessant thinking. From the time he began to remember himself: What
shall I be and how shall I do it all?

Then doubt: is power alone worth everything and could one not be the
slave of all the strongest.

He began training his will power. He is stung by passions.

                             --------------

                                                                Page 16.

That in each line should be heard: I know what I am writing and I am not
writing in vain.

1. _The First Pages._—(1) The tone, (2) ideas to be artistically and
concisely fitted in.

THE FIRST N.B.—_The Tone_ (the story is a _life_—_i.e._ although from
the author, it must be concise, without being meagre in explanations,
but also representing by means of scenes. In this harmony is needed).
The concision of the story is at times that of Gil Blas. As though no
importance is attached (by the author) to dramatic and scenic passages.

But the dominating idea of the Life should be seen,—_i.e._ although the
whole dominating idea is not explained and is always left vague, the
reader should always realize that the idea is religious, that the Life
is of such importance that it is worth while to begin even from the
years of extreme childhood—also, in the selection of that in which the
_story_ consists, of all facts, there is continuously displayed
(_something_) and the man to be is constantly exhibited and set on a
pedestal.

_Chief Nota Bene_: He began saving money from a vague idea, but that
idea was all the time becoming solid, and showing itself to him in the
further development of the affair.

But the chief impulse was his coming to live at Alfonsky’s.

                                    (1) Caught a mouse.
                                    The lame girl.
                                    The old couple.

                                   │The nurse, bathing, the badge,
                                   │  and retirement.

                                   │Anna and Vasilissa ran away.

                                   │The last communion (the
                                   │  Italian, money from pocket)—

          When I shall be grown up.│The first idea.

                                   │The teacher (drunk).

                                   │The first confession, what has
                                   │  he got there in the little
                                   │  boxes, and in the cup? Is
                                   │  there a God?

                                   │To convert the Devil.

      The beating of the lame girl. The corpse by the hedge.
                                      Kilyan.

                                    Vasilissa was sold—

                                    Interest on money and
                                      conversations with the
                                      guest.

                                    Readings. On Suvorov. Arabian
                                      tales.

                                    Dreams.—Umnov and Gogol—(the
                                      lame girl laughs).

                                    —The old couple grow weaker
                                      and weaker.

                                    He locked them in. He got
                                      drunk.

                                    Stole with the boy. Thrashed
                                      him.

                                    Fighting with older boys.

                                    —Complete depravity.

                                    He beats the lame girl to make
                                      her fight the boys.

                                    She would like to come out,
                                      but she was thrashed and she
                                      cried—

                                    Dreams of power and will.
                                      Umnov (looks at naked girls,
                                      tries to assault the lame
                                      girl).

When the old couple died—he is eleven years old, and the lame girl is
ten,—Alfonsky—The old man and woman. Death. He makes a speech to the
lame girl upon how to behave.

—Before that: They teased the lady—fell on her, they were dragged home,
flogging—He was afraid to complain.

The first fight, he rushed to beat the gentleman with the badge.

I shall never play the coward.

—I’ll learn not to play the coward. (He was afraid, but thrashed the
boy.)

—He cut himself for a test.

—Instruction from the boy as to fornic...on (Therese-Philosophe gave him
a beating for it).

But the book she took away from him.

He began to save money.

To amass (he tells the lame girl).

The lame girl was taken into the Alfonsky family before.[80]

Footnote 80:

  On the left-hand margin Dostoevsky wrote, beginning at the words “They
  caught a mouse” and continuing to this point, “To squeeze all this
  into four folios (maximum).”

He, directly he arrived, puts her through an examination. (Advice to
her: do not speak of Gogol and of nothing of ours.)

First part. The boy is wild, but thinks a tremendous lot of himself.

                             --------------

                                                                Page 18.

—The man-servant Osip—at first he was taken into the house to amuse them
by telling stories, by his jovial character. _Alfonsky_ had whipped
Osip’s brother to death, then he took Osip and pressed him for the army.
Immediately Osip escaped (he is also Kulikov). They killed Orlov. They
part. Kulikov (Osip) let him off.

—In a year and a half’s time the hero’s step-mother weeps at Alfonsky’s
betrayal of her. He keeps a mistress openly. Osip’s sister (for that
reason he whipped Osip’s brother to death). Alfonsky is killed by the
peasants (?).

_The Canvas of the Novel._—The hero’s step-mother, Alfonsky’s wife (a
society lady), when she pined, becoming an old maid, had a fiancé (an
officer or some one—teacher).

But she married Alfonsky. Unhappy and offended by Alfonsky (she slapped
his mistress in the face) she renewed relations with her first lover who
happened to turn up at that time. The boy saw them kissing. “You may
report it to your father,” and then begged him not to tell. The boy kept
silence; but Alfonsky knows that his son knows that he has horns and
that the step-mother has a lover.

He made a row in the village on account of the lame girl. He mocked
Katya. The mother was beside herself because of Katya. In town with
_Lambert_—and so on.

_Here_ (Al——y) who made a row in the village, the peasants _might_ have
killed him, which the boy might witness,—and—

                                     (I may make up about the
                                    step-mother and her lover, and
                                    to what extent and degree the
                                    boy is _involved_ in that
                                    liaison.)

—Alfonsky has a benefactor—and indeed his chief enemy, because he is a
benefactor. All the benefactor’s favours humiliate his pride. The
benefactor does not like to live unless he can act the part of
benefactor, but for one inch of favour demands three yards of gratitude.
Both humiliate themselves, humiliate each other, and hate each other to
the verge of illness.

                             --------------

                                                                Page 17.

—The extraordinary pride of the boy has the result that he can neither
pity nor despise these men.

Nor can he be very indignant with them. He cannot sympathize either with
his father or mother. At the exam, he distinguished himself
unexpectedly,—he wanted to appear an imbecile. He despises himself
greatly because he could not restrain himself and distinguished himself.

—The dangerous and uncommon idea that he is to become an extraordinary
man possessed him from his first childhood. He thinks of it incessantly.
Cleverness, skill, learning—all these he wishes to acquire as a means to
being extraordinary in the future.

Again money seems to him at least not unnecessary, a power useful on all
occasions, and he decides on money:

Knowledge appears to him terribly difficult.

Now again it seems to him that even if he is not to be an extraordinary
man, but most ordinary, money will give him everything,—_i.e._ power and
the right to despise—

And at last he repents and is tormented in his conscience because he
wishes so basely to be extraordinary.

But he himself does not know what he will be.

The pure ideal of a free man flashes across him at times; all this when
at the boarding school.

―――――――――――――――――

—He made friends with Osip, about the Khlysti, they almost sleep
together.

—Umnov; he knows Gogol by heart.

                             --------------

                                                                Page 70.

Monastery—God give us and all animals a good night—(To make a study of
Humboldt’s description of animals, Buffon and the Russians.)

—Science as worship.

—About the bear.

—Of his first love and how he became a monk—(chastity).

—On the nature of Satan?

—Anikita goes to Chaadaev to exhort him. He calls Tikhon: the latter
comes, argues, and then asks to be forgiven.

—On little insects and the universal joy of _Living Life_, Tikhon’s
inspiriting stories.

—His friendship with the boy, who allows himself to torment Tikhon by
pranks. (The devil is in him.)

—Tikhon learns of Therese-Philosophe—He blesses him in his downfall and
revolt.

—Tikhon’s clear stories about life and happiness on earth. Of his
family, father, mother, brothers. Extraordinarily simple and therefore
moving stories from Tikhon of his transgressions against his people, of
pride, ambition, mockery (I wish I could unmake all this again now,
Tikhon says).

This alone is in itself moving, that he has become friends with the boy.

Tikhon’s story of his first love, of children, it is lower to live as a
Monk; one must have children, and it is _higher_ when one has a
vocation.

—Therese-Philosophe disturbed Tikhon. And I thought that he had already
been hardened. He vowed obedience to the boy. He obeys him.

(Loftily, vigorously, and movingly.)

Tikhon says to a certain lady that she is a traitor to Russia as well as
a malefactor towards her children; of how they are deprived of childish
visions even from their very childhood. The study of them (by Leo
Tolstoi and Turgenev), although they are exact, reveals an alien life.
Pushkin alone is a real Russian.

The boy has at times a low opinion of Tikhon: he is so funny, he does
not know things, he is so weak and helpless, he comes to me for advice,
but at last he perceives that Tikhon’s mind is as strong as a babe is
pure; that he cannot have an evil thought, cannot be tempted, and
therefore all his acts are clear and beautiful.

                             --------------

                                                                Page 71.

Tikhon. On humility (how mighty humility is).

All about humility and free will.

—Of forgiving the unforgivable sinner (that this torment is the most
tormenting).

                                                                Page 19.

The Main Idea.

          May 3/15.

After the Monastery and Tikhon the Great Sinner comes out into the world
in order to be _the greatest of men_. He is sure that he will be the
greatest of men. And in that way he behaves: he is the proudest of the
proud and behaves with the greatest haughtiness towards people. The
vagueness as to the form of his future greatness coincides perfectly
with his youth. But he (and this is cardinal) has _through Tikhon_ got
hold of the idea (conviction) that in order to conquer the whole world
one must conquer oneself only. Conquer thyself and thou shalt conquer
the world. Does not choose a career, but neither has he the time: he
begins to watch himself profoundly. But along with this there are also
certain contradictions:

(1) Gold (amassing) (a family on his hands); amassing money was
suggested to him by a usurer, a terrible man, the antithesis of Tikhon.
(2) Education (Comte—Atheism—Friends). Education—He is tormented by
ideas and philosophy but he masters that which is essential.

Suddenly youth and debauchery. A martyr’s act and terrible crimes.
Self-renunciation. But out of mad pride he becomes an ascetic and
pilgrim. Travels in Russia. (Romance of love. Thirst for humiliation),
etc., etc., and so on.

                         (The canvas is rich.)
                         Fallings and risings.

Extraordinary man—but what has he done and achieved.

_Traits._—Out of pride and infinite haughtiness towards people he
becomes meek and charitable to all because he is already higher than
all.

He wanted to shoot himself (a child was exposed at his door).

He ends with establishing a Foundling Hospital and becomes a Haase.[81]
Everything is becoming clear.

He dies confessing a crime.

Footnote 81:

  F. M. Dostoevsky had evidently in mind the famous Russian doctor and
  philanthropist Haase.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    STAVROGIN’S MEETING WITH TIKHON

                                   BY

                               V. FRICHE

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    STAVROGIN’S MEETING WITH TIKHON

                      FROM DOSTOEVSKY’S NOTE-BOOKS

BISHOP TIKHON, to whom Stavrogin makes his “Confession,” was conceived
by Dostoevsky as one of the principal characters in the
great—unnamed—novel in five books, the plan of which he communicated in
1870 to A. N. Maikov. The action of the second book, on which Dostoevsky
rested all his hopes, was to take place in a monastery to which a boy,
who had committed a criminal offence, had been sent by his parents. He
was “fully developed and depraved” (a type, as Dostoevsky says, well
known to him), “a little wolf and a nihilist,” who comes in the end to
feel the beneficent influence of Bishop Tikhon. “I want to make Tikhon
Sadonsky in the second book the central figure,” Dostoevsky wrote, “of
course under a different name, but he is also a bishop and will live in
a monastery in retirement.... It is no longer a Konstanjhoglo, nor the
German (I forget his name) in _Oblomov_, nor the Lopukhovs and
Rakhmetovs. True, I shall not create anything, but shall only reveal the
actual Tikhon whom I have long since taken to my heart with rapture.”

When Dostoevsky later conceived the idea of _The Life of a Great
Sinner_, the hero of _The Life_, “sometimes a believer, sometimes an
atheist,” had indeed to be spiritually reborn in a monastery under the
influence of the “holy and grand” figure of Tikhon, and to issue into
life as “the greatest of men.”

When Dostoevsky finally decided on his conception of _The Possessed_,
his intention was to give a conspicuous place to Tikhon, to whom
Stavrogin (the prince) was to give his Confession, and this Confession
adds considerably to Peter Stepanovich Verkhovensky’s story about the
Petersburg period of Nikolai Vsevolodovich’s life (_The Possessed_, Part
I. chap. v.).

In the notes published by L. P. Grossman in his book on Dostoevsky
(notes taken from the Dostoevsky Note-books in the Historical Museum),
there are hints as to Stavrogin’s (prince) meeting with Tikhon, and also
as to the subject of their conversation and the crime of which Stavrogin
repents in his Confession.

Thus Dostoevsky intended the following words to appear in Stavrogin’s
“document”: “And I did all this as an aristocrat, an idler, a man
uprooted from the ground. I admit, though, that the chief factor was my
own wicked will, and had nothing to do with my environment; of course
nobody commits such crimes. But all, who are uprooted from the ground,
do the same kind of things, although more feeble and watery. Many people
do not even notice their nasty acts and think themselves honest.”

Tikhon, who in the note appears under the name of “Bishop,” advises that
this passage shall be struck out, and Stavrogin replies in a grumbling
tone: “I am not a man of letters.”

This passage is not in Stavrogin’s Confession. The idea that many people
sin in the same way, yet go on living (“in peace and quiet with their
conscience”), is expressed there not by Stavrogin, but by Tikhon. And it
is Tikhon, not Stavrogin, who says that the latter’s moral fall is a
result of his being uprooted from the ground (words inserted by
Dostoevsky in the text of the proofs while correcting them).

In these published notes there is also some indication of the motive
which decided Stavrogin to make his “document” public:

“Tikhon says: On earth people must be happy.

“(Prince): I am an idler and I am bored. I know that on earth one can be
happy (and must be happy) and that there is something which gives
happiness, but I do not know what it is. No, I am not one of the
disappointed. I think I am one of the corrupt and idle.

“The Prince says to him: I want to test my strength and I will tell you
about the little girl.”

As can be seen from Stavrogin’s Confession, he did commit his crime from
“boredom.” Not satisfied with Stavrogin’s admission of this in the text,
Dostoevsky tried to heighten the motive by adding the following words in
the margin: “I say frankly, I was sometimes by no means far from
thinking that I should be exiled to Siberia. The main thing is—I am
bored. I was so bored that I could have hanged myself, I think. I
remember, at that time I was much taken up with theology. That, it is
true, diverted me a bit, but later I felt still more bored.”

Finally, in one of the notes published by Grossman the reason is
indicated why Stavrogin, when it comes to the point, gives up the idea
of publishing his “document”: “the Bishop says that the confession of
faith is all right, but that faith without deeds is dead, and he demands
a still higher deed, a still more difficult act, a _moral labour_, as if
he said: ‘Well, Prince, are you capable of this?’ And the Prince admits
that he is a Prince, he confesses that he has lied and takes back his
words: in the end—Uri.”[82]

Footnote 82:

  _I.e._ the idea of Stavrogin’s going away with Dasha to Switzerland
  and living there as a Swiss citizen.

To these notes of Dostoevsky, which are already known, we are now able
to add a series of new notes taken from Dostoevsky’s Note-book which is
in the Central Archives (No. 15 in A. G. Dostoevsky’s list).

On page 30 we find:

    “Lisa[83] pays attention to Nechaev.[84]

    He kills Shatov.

    Lisa is convinced that _he_ (Stavrogin) had killed him.

    She hurries off to him.

    (Meanwhile the Prince[85] and Tikhon; before that the Prince and
        Shatov. Everything as before.)

    Lisa runs away with Nechaev. St. Tr.[86] And the book-pedlar. He
        dies. The Prince hanged himself. Everything as before.”

Footnote 83:

  Lisa, _i.e._ Elisabeth Nikolaevna Drosdov.

Footnote 84:

  Nechaev became Peter Verkhovensky.

Footnote 85:

  Stavrogin.

Footnote 86:

  Stepan Trofimovich, Peter Verkhovensky’s father.

This, clearly, is quite a different version of the end of the novel so
far as it relates to Lisa. Another indication as to the meeting of
Tikhon and Stavrogin is found on page 37:

    “Sum total. Stavrogin as a character.

    All noble impulses to a monstrous degree.

    (Tikhon) and all passions (_with unfailing boredom_).

    He throws himself on the girl[87] and on the beauty.[88]

    He did not really love the beauty but despised her, but flared up
        with passion (illusory and momentary, but infinite) and, as soon
        as he has committed the crime, he is disappointed. He escaped
        punishment, but hanged himself.”

Footnote 87:

  Dasha or Darya Pavlovna.

Footnote 88:

  Elisabeth Nikolaevna.

There is also a hint with regard to one detail in the supposed
conversation between Tikhon and Stavrogin. On page 38 we find: “He
confesses to Tikhon that he gets fun out of making game of the beauty.”
But actually Stavrogin does not make game of Elisabeth Nikolaevna, and
she is scarcely mentioned in the Confession and in the conversation with
Tikhon.

There is also a hint with regard to the crime committed by Stavrogin on
page 37: “No one knows the secret of the marriage[89] except Dasha and
the beauty. Only Tikhon knows about the little girl.”

Footnote 89:

  Stavrogin’s marriage to the lame girl.

Finally, on page 36 there is a hint with regard to the passage in the
novel to which Stavrogin’s meeting must be referred: “Stavrogin advises
Dasha to give up S. T. and run away with him to Switzerland, to Uri. He
had already done this before. Here there is a misunderstanding with S.
T., who, to spite her, tells her he is a cuckold ... and Dasha goes to
her brother. At the same time (the beauty showed jealousy) she warns him
that Stavrogin is married to the lame girl. The beauty is in despair,
since all her hopes are lost (for she suspects that the prince is in
love with her, and she herself is madly in love with him); she laughs at
Dasha; she runs and gives herself to the prince. Immediately after this
the murder of the lame girl.

                       (He went to Tikhon).”[90]

Footnote 90:

  Below is added: “The prince buries the lame girl, and Kuleshov (Fedka
  the murderer) confesses that it was he who did it.... And the beauty
  quickly went out of her mind.”

Such are the hints and notes out of which eventually grew the chapters
of “At Tikhon’s,” and we do not know the reason why they were not
included by Dostoevsky in _The Possessed_. Some details of Stavrogin’s
Confession were later used by Dostoevsky for the character of Versilov
in _The Raw Youth_.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              INTRODUCTION

                       TO THE UNPUBLISHED CHAPTER

                                   OF

                            _THE POSSESSED_

                                   BY
                             V. KOMAROVICH

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        THE UNPUBLISHED CHAPTER

                                   OF

                            _THE POSSESSED_

THE chapter of _The Possessed_, Stavrogin’s confession of his terrible
crime, excluded from the completed novel, first became known to
Merezhkovsky. Mrs. F. M. Dostoevsky (Anna Gregorievna Dostoevsky,
Dostoevsky’s widow) originally intended to invite Merezhkovsky to edit
the 1906 Jubilee Edition of Dostoevsky’s Works and showed him the
precious fragment in manuscript. In his book, _Tolstoi and Dostoevsky_,
M. preserved his first impression of that reading by saying that it
surpasses the bounds of the possible in its concentrated expression of
horror. A. G. Dostoevsky hesitated to publish the chapter in full, and
gave parts of it only in her edition of 1906 as a supplement to _The
Possessed_. Her hesitation is understandable: Stavrogin’s terrible
confession was not a complete secret even to Dostoevsky’s
contemporaries. Excluded from the novel at Katkov’s request, the
Confession became known by hearsay, and round these rumours grew up the
dark legend of Dostoevsky as a Marquis de Sade. It was the doing of his
enemies and of faithless friends.[91] But the feeling which kept the
author’s widow from publishing the fragment of _The Possessed_ must not
restrain the student of Dostoevsky. Indeed, the dark legend that
Dostoevsky was a sensualist is based (by N. Strakhov chiefly) either on
an obscure calumny, or on coarse and callous surmises as to the mystery
of that troubled and too exacting conscience which was the mark of
Dostoevsky’s character. And we believe that the surest way of freeing
Dostoevsky’s memory from those false accusations is by means of open
enquiry and the fullest understanding of Dostoevsky as an artist.

Footnote 91:

  See Turgenev’s letter of Sept. 24, 1882, to Schedrin; also N. N.
  Strakhov’s letter of Nov. 28, 1883, to Leo Tolstoi.

“The scene from Stavrogin (the rape, etc.),” of which Strakhov speaks in
the letter to Tolstoi, is preserved in the Dostoevsky Archives which
belong to the Pushkin Department of the Russian Academy of Sciences.[92]
It is a note-book of seventy-seven pages carefully executed in the
handwriting of A. G. Dostoevsky, a copy, although unfinished, of a
hitherto unknown manuscript of Dostoevsky. It is not difficult to
determine the place which had been intended for that fragment in _The
Possessed_. The manuscript is headed “Chapter IX. At Tikhon’s.” From the
contents it can be seen that the chapter so numbered must be referred to
Part Second of the novel. In our fragment the following incidents are
supposed to have already taken place: Shatov’s box on Stavrogin’s ear
(the last chapter of Part I.) and Stavrogin’s conversation with Shatov
in the night (the first chapter of Part II.). On the other hand
Stavrogin’s public declaration of his marriage with Maria Timofeevna
(Chapter X. Part II.) is only expected and is still being considered by
Stavrogin and Tikhon. Thus, our Chapter IX. ought to follow immediately
after Chapter VIII. of Part II. (“Ivan the Tsarevich”), where the
maddened Peter Verkhovensky confesses in a passionate whisper his
incredible love of Stavrogin, and where Stavrogin—in the highest state
of tension (as was ever the case with Dostoevsky)—reveals his true self.
(Stavrogin as Ivan Tsarevich, the unknown “he” of all Russia, is hiding
himself, the “beautiful” and “sun,” but through Verkhovensky’s wiles is
already enslaved by the demon of nihilism.) Yet Stavrogin has two ways
and two inclinations which constitute the basis and centre of the novel
so far as it affects the religious destinies of Russia. Apart from the
temptations of nihilism, he, like the future Aliosha Karamazov, knows
also the way to the monastery and to religious obedience. Thus after the
embraces of the devil—Verkhovensky (in Chapter VIII.)—there is the
confession to Tikhon (in our Chapter IX.).

Footnote 92:

  The author of this article, published in _Builoe_, No. 18, 1922, seems
  at the time of writing to have been ignorant of the version of
  Stavrogin’s Confession published by the Central Archives.—TRANSLATORS.

The question which has to be answered first by the student of this
fragment is the question of its relation to the text of the finished
novel, _The Possessed_. Is this Chapter IX. a part of the artistic
whole, which, against the artist’s wish, has accidentally been omitted,
and which therefore must now be restored to its proper place in that
whole? Or is it one of those numerous fragments of Dostoevsky’s, which,
corresponding to some early but subsequently altered scheme of the
novel, have been detached from the finished novel, and have not been
included in the final text by the artist, but are now preserved only in
Dostoevsky’s rough manuscripts as curious examples of the complex origin
of his books? As to the first of these suppositions, the words of N.
Strakhov, which there is no reason to distrust, speak quite clearly.
“The scene from Stavrogin (the rape, etc.) Katkov did not want to
publish.” Thus the omission of the chapter “At Tikhon’s” from the novel
did not arise from the artist’s decision, but from an external cause,
the request of the editor of the _Russkìi Vèstnik_ where _The Possessed_
was appearing.

Strakhov’s evidence is confirmed by the connection which exists between
the omitted Chapter IX. and Dostoevsky’s creative activity generally,
and also with _The Possessed_ as an artistic whole.

The motif of a cruelly insulted little girl, developed in Stavrogin’s
Confession, is evidently one of Dostoevsky’s long-standing and enduring
ideas. In the year 1866, at the time of his friendship with the family
of the Korvin-Krukovskys, Dostoevsky told this idea of his as “a scene
from a novel planned by him in his youth.” The hero of the novel one
morning goes over all his recollections in memory, and “suddenly in the
very heat ... of pleasant dreams and bygone experiences begins to feel
an awkwardness—something like an inner pain, an alarm.... It appears to
him that he must recollect something, and he makes efforts, strains his
memory.... And suddenly, he actually called to mind, as vividly and
realistically as if it had happened yesterday ... whereas for all these
twenty years it had not worried him at all. He remembered how once,
after a night of debauchery and under provocation from his friends, he
had raped a little girl of ten.”[93]

Footnote 93:

  _Reminiscences of Childhood_, by Sophie Kovalevsky.

The connection between this idea and Stavrogin’s Confession is
indisputable. The recollection of a sin after a long forgetfulness leads
straight to the closing scene of Stavrogin’s Confession and to the last
“vision.”

But there are several connecting links between that idea (which in 1866
he thought of as of long standing and remote) and Chapter IX. of _The
Possessed_. Putting aside _Crime and Punishment_, where Svidrigailov’s
vision before his death is also an echo of that idea, _The Life of a
Great Sinner_, which was conceived by him in the years 1869 and 1870,
was without doubt to have developed the theme of the injured girl.

The hero of _The Life_ was meant to show by the whole course of his
existence the religious consistency of life in general, and the
inevitability of the acceptance of God. _The Life_ in its first parts
was to tell the story of the constant and increasing immersion of man in
sin. To the artist this utter absorption of the hero in sin was a
necessity. Here Dostoevsky by artistic experiment tested one of his
dearest and most secret ideas—his belief that each personality and man’s
life on earth generally will not desert, nor can desert, the kingdom of
the Grace of the Spirit so long as it preserves itself entire; that sin
has nothing ontological in itself; that man’s soul is by its very nature
a “Christian.” If the notes of _The Life_ are read attentively, one sees
how Dostoevsky tries to bring the sin and downfall of his hero to the
utmost limits, to the last boundary—and this is in order that
Dostoevsky’s optimistic belief in the essential illumination of life
through Grace should be more strikingly justified, and should prevail in
the end of _The Life_ where “everything is becoming clear,” and the
(“great”) sinner turns to God and dies confessing his crime.

Sin, the deepest sin, is not innate in, but accidental to, man—this
belief of Dostoevsky’s dominated _The Life_, and led the artist to
contrive situations in which the extremes of sin could be shown. To
Dostoevsky the violation of the little girl was an extreme of this sort.
This theme was provided by the writer with a view to the religious
trials of the hero of _The Life_, for among the notes of the plan there
is the following: “He makes an attempt on the lame girl....”

It should be plain that Dostoevsky’s interest in this conception had
risen not from personal recollections, and was not maintained by them,
but by the artist’s desire to find some adequate way of expressing in
the plot his religious conception of the world.

But it is not only the conception of Chapter IX. that is anticipated by
the plan of _The Life_. There is a deeper and closer connection between
them.

The note, “he makes an attempt on the lame girl,” occurring in the plan,
is closely connected as a particular development of the general idea
with the other note, “straight into the abyss.” But this last is
intimately connected with another and quite different note, brief but of
great significance in the eyes of Dostoevsky, “The Monastery.” The Great
Sinner, the violator of the little girl, doing penance to Tikhon in the
monastery, was meant to form the second part of _The Life_, and in the
plan is sketched out by independent notes.

It is at the same time the artistic skeleton of our Chapter IX. of _The
Possessed_. The relations between Tikhon and the Great Sinner merely
anticipate the dialogue between Stavrogin and Tikhon. “He vowed
obedience to the boy” (_i.e._ Tikhon to the Great Sinner); “Friendship
with the boy who allowed himself to torture Tikhon by pranks (The devil
is in him).” These notes are closely related to those passages of the
dialogue of Chapter IX. where Tikhon humbly lowers himself before
Stavrogin, asks to be forgiven, confesses his love for Stavrogin, while
Stavrogin is haughty and mocking.... “The boy has at times a low opinion
of Tikhon, he is so funny, he does not know things, he is weak and
helpless, comes to me for advice; but at last he realizes that Tikhon is
strong in mind, as a babe is pure, and that he cannot have an evil
thought.”

This note appears already as a simple sketch of the dialogue between
Stavrogin and Tikhon, in which the relations of the sinner and the
ascetic are depicted in this double way by vacillations between
suspicious mockery and adoration.

The close correspondence between Stavrogin’s Confession and the plan of
_The Life_ can be explained by the history of the logical construction
of _The Possessed_. That novel grew from the complicated re-fashioning
of the originally simple idea which, as it grew larger and broader, drew
into itself fragments of _The Life_, which had been conceived at the
same time, but had not yet been executed. Stavrogin’s appearance in _The
Possessed_ in the part of the principal hero marks a comparatively late
stage in the conception of that novel, which coincides with Dostoevsky’s
determination not to write _The Life_. Stavrogin’s character introduced
into the novel the broad religious and artistic problems of _The Life of
a Great Sinner_. The Great Sinner’s meeting with Tikhon and his
confession was an organic part of _The Life_, foreseen by Dostoevsky
even in the first moments of inspiration.[94]

Footnote 94:

  See Dostoevsky’s _Biography_, _Letters_, etc., pp. 202, 233, etc., in
  the original.

In so far as Stavrogin is the Great Sinner, his meeting with Tikhon and
confession (_i.e._ our Chapter IX.) are a necessary part of _The
Possessed_. This conclusion is justified by Dostoevsky’s direct
evidence. There is no doubt that Dostoevsky had Chapter IX. (At
Tikhon’s) in view when he says to Katkov, in his letter of October 8,
1870, that in _The Possessed_, which was at that time being published in
the _Russkìi Vèstnik_, he “wants for the first time ... to deal with a
certain group of people which has as yet been little dealt with in
literature. I take Tikhon Sadonsky to be the ideal of such a character.
He too is a priest living in a monastery in retirement. With him I
confront the hero of my novel and bring them together for a time.”[95]
That is, up to the end of writing the novel, Dostoevsky himself
considered that Chapter IX. was a necessary, inseparable, and essential
part of it. The relationship between _The Life of a Great Sinner_ and
_The Possessed_ explains that necessity.

Footnote 95:

  See “Dostoevsky as contributor to _Russkìi Vèstnik_” in _Builoe_, No.
  14, 1919; F. M. D.’s unpublished letters from 1866 to 1873.

Turning to the completed text of _The Possessed_, we find signs of the
seemingly accidental disappearance of Chapter IX. Without that chapter
certain details of the novel appear to be incomplete. Stavrogin, when he
awoke “looking stubbornly and curiously at an object in the corner of
the room which had struck him, although there was nothing new or
particular there....”[96] Shatov, seeing Stavrogin out, says to him:
“Listen, go and see Tikhon ... Tikhon, the late Bishop, who through
ill-health lives in retirement in this city, in our Yefimev-Bogorodskii
Monastery.”[97] The first two details (we could indicate others) are,
without Chapter IX., superfluous and have no artistic foundation. And
only Stavrogin’s confession about the devil who persecutes him, only his
meeting and conversation with Tikhon, only Chapter IX., give to these
details the sense of that anticipation of motive which Dostoevsky was so
fond of using.

Footnote 96:

  See _The Possessed_ (original), Edition 1888, vol. vii. pp. 212-213.

Footnote 97:

  See _ibid._ p. 238.

Finally, by excluding Chapter IX. from the novel, we violate the
characteristic grace of Dostoevsky’s construction. We violate
Dostoevsky’s aesthetic principle, according to which the action in its
early stages advances by motives concealed from the reader, and only
when it approaches the catastrophe is the hidden cause immediately made
clear by the hero’s lengthy confession. Such a “belated exposition” is
Raskolnikov’s theory, communicated only after the murder. “The Revolt”
and “The Legend of the Great Inquisitor”—Ivan Karamazov’s Confession—are
communicated to the reader only after he already knows that Ivan has
consented in his own mind to patricide (“Voluptuaries”). There is also
the case of Versilov’s confession to his son—after the absurd letter to
Madame Ahmakov and immediately before the catastrophe. Stavrogin’s
confession before the catastrophe, together with events in the last
chapter of the second part and the chapters of the third part,
correspond perfectly to this obviously characteristic principle in the
construction of Dostoevsky’s novels.

Such are the reasons for thinking that Chapter IX. was accidentally
excluded and that it is necessary to restore it to its proper place in
the novel.

There are, however, reasons leading to an opposite solution of the
question, and they are the more convincing.

If we compare the character of Stavrogin, as he appears in the novel,
with the new material which our fragment (Chapter IX.) adds to that
character, important and deep-seated contradictions are at once
apparent. A pale mask concealing behind itself indifference to good and
evil—such is Stavrogin as we know him in the novel. Chapter IX.
ostensibly brings to life that dead inert force by means of his
religious experiences. Here Stavrogin’s Confession, however absurdly
expressed, is a penance, _i.e._ the act of a live religious will. “You
have discovered a great way, an unheard-of way,” Tikhon says to
Stavrogin, “to punish yourself in the eyes of the whole world by the
disgrace which you have deserved; you submitted to the judgment of the
whole church, without believing in the church.” There is also a true
humility in Stavrogin: “You ... speak to me exactly as to an equal,” he
says to Tikhon; and Tikhon replies: “Your saying that I speak to you as
to an equal, although involuntary, is a splendid saying.” And finally,
the last verdict of the confessor: “For your unbelief God will forgive
you, for you truly respect the Holy Spirit without knowing him.” If this
Confession were included in the novel, then Stavrogin’s end, his
callous—in a religious sense—suicide, would be perfectly impossible and
artistically unprepared for. A man who “truly respects the Holy Spirit”
could not have written the letters before his death to Darya Pavlovna;
Dostoevsky would have prepared a completely different end from the end
of Stavrogin for the elect of the Spirit: “the citizen of the canton of
Uri hanged here behind the door, etc.”

This inconsistency in the principal character of the novel, which arises
if Chapter IX. is included, clearly forbids any such inclusion. Besides,
there are direct proofs that at the time he finished work on _The
Possessed_, and also later, Dostoevsky considered that Chapter IX. was
excluded from the novel. The words of the Apocalypse, “And to the Angel
of the Laodicean Church,” would hardly have been repeated by Dostoevsky
at the end of the novel in the last talk of Stepan Trofimovich with the
“book-pedlar,” if he had not considered that Chapter IX. was finally
excluded from the text.

Although _The Possessed_ was published more than once after 1871,
Dostoevsky, though no longer bound by Katkov’s censorship, did not
include Chapter IX. And finally, the following fact gives us the
clearest evidence as to how Dostoevsky regarded the fragment in relation
to the text of _The Possessed_: a considerable part of Stavrogin’s
Confession was inserted by Dostoevsky almost without alteration in the
confession of Versilov (_The Raw Youth_), in 1874.[98] The artist might
have used for the new novel the material of the rough draft of the
preceding novel, but could not possibly have used a fragment of the
authentic text.

Footnote 98:

  Compare the passage in Stavrogin’s Confession from “A year ago, in the
  spring, going through Germany, I absentmindedly left the station
  behind me,” to the words “A whole shaft of bright slanting rays from
  the setting sun rushed out and poured their light over me,” with the
  corresponding passage of Chapter VII., Part III., of _The Raw Youth_,
  third edition, 1888, pp. 461-462.

Thus, both the completeness of Stavrogin’s character and the definitely
expressed wish of the author compel us to conclude that Chapter IX. was
not accidentally omitted, but did not belong to the novel. It is a
variant of the manuscript, but nothing more. How then are we to
reconcile this conclusion with the one which tells in favour of the
opposite solution? Surely Dostoevsky’s letter of October 8, 1870, to
Katkov clearly refers to our fragment as a necessary part of the novel.

The date, although it coincides with the beginning of the publication of
the novel, does not fix the final moment of the conception of _The
Possessed_. The autumn of 1870 is the time when the idea of _The
Possessed_ had become closely related in Dostoevsky’s mind with the idea
of _The Life of a Great Sinner_. Stavrogin is almost identified with the
hero of _The Life_. And since the crisis of that Life, as it was
planned, was the repentance of the sinner and his conversion to God with
Tikhon’s help, Dostoevsky had then planned the same conversion for
Stavrogin. At that moment (the final moment in the creation of the
novel, for the first part was already being published) Dostoevsky might,
indeed, have thought that Chapter IX.—the story of the meeting of the
sinner with Tikhon and the beginning of his repentance—was necessary.

The second part of the novel was evidently written by Dostoevsky with
the determination to show the “great sinner” (Stavrogin) converted. Our
Chapter IX. corresponds to the “serene” Stavrogin who does not appear in
the novel, and of whom a few hints are preserved in the rough draft
which no doubt issue from the idea of _The Life_.

The hesitation and vacillation as to the plan of the novel spread over
so long a time that, when he was finishing the second part of the novel
(Chapter IX.), Dostoevsky was even nearer to the plan of _The Life of a
Great Sinner_ than to the form which _The Possessed_ finally took. He
still meant to represent his great sinner, Stavrogin, in the light of
Grace. But, as he worked on the last chapter of the novel and approached
the catastrophe in the third part, Dostoevsky evidently realized that it
was impossible to carry out the religious and artistic objects which he
had in view. Dostoevsky did not find himself possessed of the artistic
powers needed to convert the Great Sinner, and everything that was
leading up to the expected conversion (Chapter IX.) was abandoned. Only
an echo of his original intention is left—not in the novel even, but on
the first page, in the quotation from the Gospels of the promise to the
sinner that he shall find salvation at the feet of Christ. The crimes of
the hero appeared to the writer at the end of his work suddenly, and
against his expectation, like a stronghold, enduring and
self-sufficient.

And in this sketch of the evolution of the significant idea of _The
Possessed_ is shown, I think, the usual course of Dostoevsky’s artistic
problems and their solution. _The Idiot_, _The Raw Youth_, and _The
Brothers Karamazov_ had all, like _The Possessed_, been meant originally
to reveal that desire for “universal harmony” cherished by Dostoevsky,
the universal Hosannah which Dostoevsky, the thinker, had visualized as
the hidden essence of the universe, clouded, but only accidentally, by
the phantom of sin. But each time, in the finished work of Dostoevsky,
the artist, there triumphed a sterner, but for all that a more
religious, conception of the world as a world subject to sin, beyond the
Grace of the Spirit, which is granted it as a gift, but not hidden in
the substance of nature.

Stavrogin’s Confession, as it echoed Dostoevsky’s optimistic view, had
inevitably to disappear in his masterpiece.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          THE UNFULFILLED IDEA

                          INTRODUCTORY NOTE TO

                      _THE LIFE OF A GREAT SINNER_

                                   BY

                               N. BRODSKY

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          THE UNFULFILLED IDEA

CREATIVE ideas and conceptions circled perpetually round the agitated
Dostoevsky like a whirlwind. His soul knew no rest, he was always at
boiling-point, and he rushed simultaneously along different roads in
different directions. Artistic visions raced before him in many streams
at the same time. “Ideas were born in his head like spray in a
whirlpool,”—such was A. E. Risenkampf’s memory of Dostoevsky as a boy
when a pupil in the College of Engineering. The same impression of a
dynamic spirit, saturated through and through with ideas and visions,
Dostoevsky also produced when he was a mature man. “Listen, listen,” was
his usual beginning as he entered upon the discussion of a problem that
interested him, so we read in the reminiscences of Prince V. M. “‘I’ll
tell you what,’ he would add, and then would clutch his head, as though
there immediately rushed into it so many ideas that he found it
difficult to begin. Very often for that reason he began to speak from
the end, from the conclusion, from a few very remote, very complicated
entanglements of his thought; or he would express the first and
principal idea and then would develop the parentheses, and begin
expressing supplementary and explanatory ideas or anything that occurred
to him _à propos_ at the moment.... This sudden inspiration was so
strong in him that it was felt not only in him but around him....”[99]

Footnote 99:

  Prince V. M., _Reminiscences of F. M. Dostoevsky_, “Dobro,” No. 2-3,
  1881.

This intellectual peculiarity of Dostoevsky’s is easily verified when
one listens to his own confessions. “I have a multitude of ideas,” he
wrote in 1845 to his brother Michael, when he had just begun his
literary career. “There is so much that is new in my life every day, so
many changes, so many impressions.... I am always busy, I have a
multitude of ideas and I write incessantly,” he wrote in 1846. In 1849
he writes to his brother: “I do not waste time in vain; I have thought
out three stories and two novels, one of which I am writing now.” When
he came out from prison in 1856 he wrote to A. Maikov from
Semipalatinsk: “I can’t tell you what agonies I suffered through not
writing at the galleys. And yet work was boiling within.” ... A few
years later we have the same confession, which proves the incessant,
complex, and many-sided activity of Dostoevsky’s spirit. In 1868 he
wrote to A. Maikov from Florence: “I have a tremendous novel in my head
now.” “I have an idea for a fairly long story of twelve printed sheets,
which attracts me. I have another idea.” “I have a number of themes,” he
writes to Maikov in 1870. “I have six stories conceived and planned
out,” he writes to N. N. Strakhov in 1870.

It is no wonder that Dostoevsky, possessed by a clamorous multitude of
visions, could not arrest them all, and could not fix them in print.
Every instant new subjects occurred to him and new characters. Somewhere
in the subconscious part of him all this material was melted into one
monolithic whole, but it gushed out so impetuously and variously on the
surface and overflowed into so many channels that it was impossible to
catch all the details and all the particulars. N. N. Strakhov,
Dostoevsky’s intimate friend, left a remarkable description which
testifies to the unrestrained overflow of Dostoevsky’s imagination. “New
characters, new schemes for novels, new problems occurred to him
incessantly; they besieged him. They even hampered his work.” Strakhov
says, “Certainly he only wrote a tenth part of the novels which he had
thought out and carried about with him, sometimes for many years. Some
of them he told in detail and with great enthusiasm, and he had endless
schemes like this which he had not time to work out.” Neither Strakhov
nor the other memoir writers (with the exception of Sophie Kovalevsky)
told Dostoevsky’s admirers about those plans of which he spoke “with
great enthusiasm.”... In Dostoevsky’s note-books there remain traces of
his creative ideas, “ideas for new stories,” plans of unfinished works,
“memento. For my whole life.” Thus on one page I found a note: “In 1860,
(1) The Darling, (2) Spring Love, (3) The Double (to re-write it), (4)
Memoirs of a Convict (fragments), (5) Apathy and Impressions.” “Spring
Love” is the title of a novel of which only the plan is left.... Under
the date Nov. 23, 1859, he put down the “plan of the tragedy _Fatum_.
Plan of Comedy: the lady places the married teacher under arrest because
he is married.” Among the stories of Makar Ivanovich (in _The Raw
Youth_) there was a story about “a squire who rebuilt a village that had
been destroyed by fire. Stinking Lizzie. How the Holy Monks killed a
monk, etc.”[100]

Footnote 100:

  From unpublished materials.

On Dec. 11, 1868, Dostoevsky announced to Apollon Maikov that he had
conceived the idea of a “tremendous novel. Its title is _Atheism_ (it
will not be ready for two years).” The author attributed great
importance to this novel. “When I have written this last novel, then I
can die—I shall have expressed myself completely.” “Now I believe that I
shall express the whole of myself in it,” he wrote of the same novel, in
March 1869, to Madame S. A. Ivanov-Khmirov.

The principal character of the novel was meant to be “a Russian man of
our society, _not young_, not highly educated, but not uneducated, of
some standing, and _suddenly_, when already on in years, he loses his
belief in God. All his life he was occupied with his business, and never
got out of the rut, and distinguished himself in nothing until the age
of forty-five. (The solution of the problem is psychological: deep
feeling, a man, and a Russian.) The loss of his belief in God affects
him tremendously (indeed, the action in the novel, the setting, are
huge, Dostoevsky wrote on Dec. 11, 1868, to A. Maikov). He looks about
everywhere among the younger generation, among atheists, Slavophils and
Westerners, among Russian fanatics and hermits, among priests; by the
way, he gets stuck fast on the hook of a Jesuit propagandist, a Pole;
from him he descends into the abyss of Khlistovshchina [a fanatical
Russian sect], and at last he finds Christ and Russia, the Russian
Christ and the Russian God.” “Two or three characters have shaped very
well in my head, among them a Catholic enthusiast, a priest (of the kind
of Fanier’s St. Francis),” Dostoevsky wrote to Madame S. A.
Ivanov-Khmirov on March 8, 1869, confident that his novel is “a real
poem”; “it must have a great effect on account of its theme”; “it will
attract the reader involuntarily.” But that novel was not written—new
ideas crowded in.... Yet the mysterious threads of the creative idea
were not torn. They are combined in other entanglements, in another
novel of which Dostoevsky wrote to Strakhov on March 24, 1870, that its
“idea has been alive in me for three years.”[101] That new novel was
intended for the magazine _Sarya_. The author wrote that the “whole plan
of the novel was ‘ripe.’” “During three years a great deal has become
ripe”; “the idea of the novel demanded a large volume”; in its bulk at
any rate, the same as Tolstoi’s _War and Peace_. “The novel will consist
of five very long stories (about fifteen printed folios each). The
stories are quite separate from one another, so that they could even be
sold separately, and published in various magazines (except the two
stories in the middle),” so he wrote to A. Maikov on March 25, 1870.
“The common title will unite them into a whole novel.”

Footnote 101:

  “This future novel has been tormenting me now for more than three
  years.”

In his letter to N. N. Strakhov of March 24, 1870, we hear about the
title of the novel _The Life of a Great Sinner_. Dostoevsky’s letter,
written on the following day to A. Maikov, gives very valuable
particulars about the novel. The action of the first book takes place as
far back as the forties. “The main question which runs through all the
books is the same which has tormented me, consciously and unconsciously,
all my life—the existence of God. The hero is at different times in his
life an atheist, a believer, a fanatic, and sectarian, now again an
atheist. The action of the second book will take place in a monastery. I
place all my hopes on this second book. Perhaps they will say at last
that I have written not merely trifles. (To you alone, Apollon
Nikolaevich, I make the confession: I want to make Tikhon Sadonsky in
the second book the central figure, of course under a different name,
but he is also a bishop and will live in a monastery in retirement.) A
thirteen-year-old boy who took part in a criminal offence, highly
developed and depraved (I know that type), the future hero of the whole
novel, is placed in the monastery by his parents (educated, of our
class) to be educated there. The young wolf and nihilist of a boy makes
friends with Tikhon (you surely know the character and the whole aspect
of Tikhon.) I shall put Chaadaev also here in the monastery (also of
course under a different name). Why should not Chaadaev spend a year in
a monastery? Suppose that Chaadaev, after his first article, for which
his mental state was examined into by doctors every week, could not bear
it any longer and published, let us say, abroad a pamphlet in French. It
is extremely likely that for this offence he might have been sent to
spend a year in a monastery. Belinsky, for instance, Granovsky, even
Pushkin might come to Chaadaev as visitors. (It is not Chaadaev; I only
take that as a type in my novel.) In the monastery are also Pavel
Prusky;[102] Golubov[103] is also there, and the monk Parfeny.[104] (In
this world I am an expert, and I know the Russian monastery from my
childhood’s days.) But the chief thing is—Tikhon and the boy. For the
love of God do not tell any one the contents of the second part. I never
tell my themes beforehand; it feels awkward; but to you I confess
myself. To others it may not be worth a farthing, but to me it is a
treasure. Don’t tell them about Tikhon. I wrote to Strakhov about the
monastery, but I did not write about Tikhon. Perhaps I shall represent a
grand, positive, holy character. It is no longer a Konstanjhoglo, nor
the German (I forget his name) in _Oblomov_, nor the Lopukhovs and
Rakhmetovs. True, I shall not create anything, but shall only reveal the
actual Tikhon whom I have long since taken to my heart with rapture. But
I shall, if I succeed, consider even this an important deed for myself.
Do not then tell it to any one. But for the second book, for the
monastery, I must be in Russia.[105] Ah, if only I succeed in it! The
first book is the childhood of the hero. It is understood that children
are not in the scene; there is a love story.”

Footnote 102:

  A sectarian of the old faith, who founded a printing-office in the
  ’60’s to print the books of the old faith; later embraced orthodoxy.

Footnote 103:

  Editor of the journal of the old faith, _Istina_, in the ’60’s;
  embraced orthodoxy under the influence of the monk Pavel.

Footnote 104:

  Author of the book in three volumes, _The Story of My Wanderings in
  Russia, Moldavia, Turkey, and the Holy Land_; Moscow, 1856.

Footnote 105:

  Dostoevsky was at that time in Dresden.

Dostoevsky attributed to this novel the importance of a personal
confession and final summing up. “This will be my last novel.” “I
consider this novel as the last word in my literary career.” Six years
had to be spent in work on it. Interrupted by the idea and plan of _The
Possessed_, busily engaged in writing for the _Russkìi Vèstnik_,
Dostoevsky was waiting the moment when he could sit down to his large
canvas “with pleasure.” But the novel was only planned out with any
distinctness in its first stage, in the rough draft of the syllabus; and
the individual characters, ideas, and scenes have been dispersed in a
series of subsequent novels.

Among Dostoevsky’s manuscripts, preserved by his widow, A. G.
Dostoevsky, and handed over by her to the Russian Historical Museum, are
Dostoevsky’s note-books, and in one of them is the detailed plan of a
novel portraying the principal hero in the days of his childhood in the
monastery and after he came out of the monastery. The plot of the novel
changed in the course of writing; now the boy is with his family, now
from the beginning he is with the Alfonsky family. The details of the
novel were also erratic: its “canvas” could always be covered with new
patterns. The novelist’s favourite word “invent” serves to indicate that
the plan of the novel in question could by no means be considered
fixed.[106]

Footnote 106:

  The original draft gives the following characteristics of the hero:

  —No authority.

  —Germs of the most violent physical passions.

  —Inclinations towards boundless power and unshakable belief in his
  authority. To move mountains. And is glad to test his power.

  —Struggle—his second nature. But quiet, not stormy.

  —Despises falsehood with all his strength.

We publish the _complete_ text of the plan of _The Life of a Great
Sinner_, preserving all the peculiarities of the writing and punctuation
of the original.

The novel was planned during various months in 1869-70.

The significance of this novel autobiographically is undeniable.
Strakhov has already called Dostoevsky the most subjective of writers. A
great many things show that in _The Life of a Great Sinner_ Dostoevsky
intended to dissect his soul, to open its wounds, to free himself from
the tormenting impulses of his _ego_, to chastise the outbreaks of his
spiteful, vicious thoughts, to lay bare before himself the secret places
of his soul, and to bring out into the light of day that darkness, so as
to disperse it—like Gogol, who fought the defects of his own spirit in
describing the characters in his books.

The hero of _The Life_ is not of course a portrait of the writer; the
details of the description are invented,[107] but _The Life_ gives hints
of the most interesting kind for an understanding of the writer’s
character.

Footnote 107:

  Evidently Dostoevsky got some material for his “model” in I. N.
  Shidlovsky, a friend of his youth, who serves also as the prototype of
  Stavrogin in the first stages of work upon him.

The whole background in the first part is steeped in the raw material of
real life, of recollections of the writer’s actual experiences. “Brother
Misha”—is he not Michael, one of Dostoevsky’s younger brothers? Sushar
is Nikolai Ivanovich Souchard, the French teacher who gave lessons to
the Dostoevsky children. _Chermak_ is Leontii Ivanovich Chermak, in
whose boarding-school Fedor Dostoevsky spent the years 1834-37. _Umnov_
is a playmate of the Dostoevsky brothers who used to come to their
house, the Vanichka Umnov who brought them various books and books in
manuscript (for instance _The House of the Mad_, by Voyekov, etc.).

The list of authors and books known to the well-read hero of _The Life_
takes us vividly into the childhood and youth of Dostoevsky himself. The
New Testament, the Bible, Gogol, Pushkin, Walter Scott, Karamzin, works
on history and geography, _Arabian Nights_, etc.—all these are confirmed
by Dostoevsky’s own accounts of the early years of his life and in the
reminiscences of him by his brother Andrei Mikhailovich. The latter,
speaking of their family readings, points out first of all that the
father and mother read aloud the usual books to their children: _The
History of the Russian State_ by Karamzin, and above all volumes xi. and
xii. Karamzin’s _History_ was Fedor Dostoevsky’s table-book, and he
always read it when he had nothing new to read. Karamzin’s stories _Poor
Lisa_ and _Marfa Possadnitsa_ were also read aloud, also _Letters of a
Russian Traveller_. Dostoevsky himself owned to N. N. Strakhov (December
2, 1870): “I grew up on Karamzin”; and in _The Journal of a Writer_
Dostoevsky said that at the age of ten he “already knew almost all the
principal episodes of Russian history from Karamzin.” Andrei
Mikhailovich Dostoevsky says: “I saw Walter Scott most often in the
hands of my brother Fedor.” To a correspondent who asked Dostoevsky to
advise him about his daughter’s reading, Dostoevsky wrote in 1880: “When
I was twelve, during my summer holiday in the country I read Walter
Scott all through. From that reading I took with me into life so many
splendid and lofty impressions that they certainly formed a great force
in my soul for the struggle against impressions of a tempting, sensual,
and corrupting kind.” According to the recollections of Andrei
Dostoevsky, Pushkin was read many times and was almost learnt by heart.
Gogol, too, was one of his brother’s favourite writers in boyhood.
Referring to Dostoevsky’s love for Gogol, A. E. Risenkampf recorded that
Dostoevsky as a boy recited to him by heart whole pages from _Dead
Souls_. Concerning the New Testament Dostoevsky wrote: “I come from a
Russian and religious family. We in our family knew the New Testament
almost from early childhood.” As a boy of eight he was greatly impressed
by hearing in church the Bible story of Job.[108]

Footnote 108:

  Madame A. G. Dostoevsky made the following note in the margin of the
  title-page of _Brothers Karamazov_ (seventh edition, p. 308), beside
  the quotation “A hundred and four sacred stories from the Old and New
  Testament.” “Fedor Mikhailovich learnt to read from this book.” The
  book is in the F. M. Dostoevsky Museum. (From unpublished materials.)

Relations of F. M. Dostoevsky remember that the stories from the
_Arabian Nights_ were told to the brothers Dostoevsky by an old woman,
Alexandra Nikolaevna, who used often to visit the family. She would tell
one story after another, and the children would not leave her side. In
F. M. Dostoevsky’s own words he was very fond of books of adventure.
_The Inhabitants of the Moon_ is evidently the title of a book which was
very popular in the thirties—“Of the Inhabitants of the Moon and other
remarkable discoveries made by the astronomer Sir John Herschel during
his stay at the Cape of Good Hope, translated from the German,
Petersburg, 1836.” That infatuation for the theatre, particularly for
_Hamlet_, which possessed the hero of _The Life_ finds confirmation also
in Dostoevsky’s biography.[109]

Footnote 109:

  See complete edition of F. M. Dostoevsky’s Works, vol. i., Petersburg,
  1883, p. 11; N. N. von Voght, “To the Biography of Dostoevsky,” in
  _Istoricheskii Vèstnik_, 1901, xii. p. 1028. See also Dostoevsky’s
  letter of Aug. 9, 1838, to his brother Michael.

The frequency in _The Life_ of details based on facts taken by the
author from his boyhood inevitably introduces a question as to the right
of the student to look for a _personal_ key in the author himself to his
hero’s character. Indeed, many of the hero’s spiritual experiences
testify to their subjective character.

He loved to test himself; he trained his will-power; he accustomed
himself to “self-torment.” This thirst for self-torment, this anxiety to
spend himself in suffering, so as to be convinced of his ability to
“endure,” was characteristic of Dostoevsky himself. A letter is brought
to him from his brother. “I have invented a new kind of enjoyment for
myself—a most strange one—to make myself suffer,” he tells his brother
Michael, in a letter of January 1, 1840. “I take your letter, turn it
over in my hand for several minutes, feel if it is full weight, and,
having looked at it sufficiently and admired the closed envelope, I put
it in my pocket.... You won’t believe what a voluptuous state of soul,
feeling, and heart there is in that! And so I sometimes wait for a
quarter of an hour....”

The hero of _The Life_ is unsociable, “uncommunicative,” keeps a great
many things to himself, is reserved and avoids people. Michael
Dostoevsky in 1838 calls his brother “reserved,” not without reason.
Fedor Dostoevsky, writing to him about the “strange and wonderful
things” in his life, says “that he will never tell any one this long
story.” In the College of Engineering, Dostoevsky, according to the
recollection of his fellow-students, usually sat or walked alone, and
kept himself apart from all. In 1854 he wrote from Semipalatinsk: “I
live a lonely life here; I hide myself from people as usual.” That
avoidance of human beings in the hero of _The Life_ was fed by his
contempt for them, by a feeling of repulsion, and sprang from “a proud,
passionate, and domineering nature.” Let us call to mind a fragment from
Dostoevsky’s letter to his brother Michael in 1847: “But, Lord, what a
multitude of disgusting, narrow-minded, grey-bearded wiseacres,
connoisseurs, Pharisees there are, who _pride themselves_ on their
experience, _i.e._ on their insignificance (for they are all made to the
same measure), who eternally preach contentment with one’s lot, belief
in something, sobriety in life, and satisfaction with one’s place,
without having realized the meaning of those words,—a satisfaction which
is like monastic flagellation and denial,—and with inexhaustible petty
spite they condemn a strong, fiery soul who cannot endure their banal
daily time-table and calendar of existence. They are scoundrels with
their farcical earthly happiness. They are scoundrels!”

The hero of _The Life_ had by nature a sharply defined sense of
personality, a consciousness of his superiority, of inner strength, of
his own uniqueness. Does not the very same tone sound in the proud and
“hyperbolical” admissions of Dostoevsky himself, when intoxicated by the
success of _Poor Folk_, his first literary venture?[110] “A crowd of new
writers has appeared. Some are my rivals. Herzen (Iskander) and
Goncharov are especially remarkable among them. They are highly praised.
But the first place is mine for the time being and, I hope, for ever.”

Footnote 110:

  “I am now nearly drunk with my own fame.” (F. D.’s letter of Nov. 16,
  1845.)

Much later, when he had served hard labour, he writes (Oct. 1, 1859) to
his brother from Tver: “Towards the middle of December I will send (or
bring myself) the corrected _Double_. Believe me, brother, that the
correction, provided with a preface, will be worth a _new novel_. They
will at last see what _The Double_ is like. I hope I shall make them
even too deeply interested. In a word, I challenge them all. And,
finally, if I do not correct _The Double_ now, when shall I do it? Why
should I lose a superb idea, the greatest type, in its social
importance, which I was the first to discover, and of which I was the
prophet?” The gigantic individualism of the hero of _The Life_, stressed
more than once by the author, is to be heard in Dostoevsky’s
characteristic admission to Apollon Maikov: “Everywhere and in
everything I reach the furthest limit; I have passed beyond the
boundaries of all life” (Aug. 16, 1867).

Certain eccentricities in the character of the hero of _The Life_ are
worth attention. He loved to “surprise everybody by unexpectedly rude
pranks”; “behaved like a monster”; “offended an old woman.” Something of
the kind, certain collapses in his spiritual life and in his relation to
people, were to be found in Dostoevsky. Thus on his own admission he was
rude to the officer who taught algebra in the College of Engineering
(1838). In his letter to his brother (1847) he gives himself the
following characteristics: “I have such a bad repulsive character....
For you and yours I am ready to give my life, but at times, when my
heart is melting with love, you can’t get a kind word from me. My nerves
do not obey me at such times.... How often I have been rude to Emily
Fedorovna,[111] the noblest of women, a thousand times better than
myself; I remembered how I used sometimes to be deliberately cross with
Fedya whom at the same time I loved even better than yourself....”

Footnote 111:

  The wife of Michael Dostoevsky.

There flared up at times in the hero of _The Life_ “a feeling of
destructiveness,” and the same feeling showed itself in Dostoevsky’s
view of the world when he was a boy. “Up till now I did not know what
wounded vanity meant,” he wrote on Oct. 31, 1838. “I should blush if
that feeling possessed me ... but—do you know?—I should like to crush
the whole world at one go.” Those plunges into “abysses” and the
voluptuousness of the hero of _The Life_ have their counterpart in
certain details which Dostoevsky himself relates of his youth.
“Good-bye,” he ended his letter to his brother of Nov. 16, 1845; “the
little Minnies, Claras, Mariannes, etc., are enchanting, but they cost a
terrible amount of money. The other day Turgenev and Belinsky scolded me
terrifically for my disorderly life.”

“The idea of amassing money,” one of the hidden thoughts of _The Great
Sinner_, had early engrossed the attention of the greatest martyr in the
ranks of poverty-stricken writers, who all his life long was in need of
money and passionately awaited the chance of living and working in
conditions of security like Tolstoi and Turgenev. “Money and security
are good things. When shall I get rid of my debts?” “Money—I have not
one brass farthing.” “It is very painful.” “If you can save me, do.” “I
am again in such straits as to be ready to hang myself.” “I am really in
an awful state now.... I have not got a farthing.” “All my life I have
worked for money, and all my life I have been constantly in need.” “How
can I write when I am hungry?... Damn myself and my hunger. But my wife
is nursing, and she _herself_ has to go and pawn her last woollen skirt.
And it has been snowing now for two days. And then they ask me for
artistry, for purity of poetry, without strain, without violence, and
they point to Turgenev and Goncharov! Let them only see in what
conditions I work ... ”—that is the cry, echoing like a groan through
Dostoevsky’s letters at various periods of his life, particularly when
he was abroad, and during the years when _The Life of a Great Sinner_
was being shaped. We have to suppose that the religious problem was
being solved by Dostoevsky much in the same way as it was in the life of
the hero of the novel—by “stretches” of belief and unbelief.

An analysis of _The Life_ which reveals the autobiographic substratum
lets us see with greater certainty the _personal_ traits in those other
novels of Dostoevsky’s into which _The Life of a Great Sinner_ split
off. Versilov’s son, born Dolgorukov (_The Raw Youth_), with his “idea
of discipline,” approaches the character in Dostoevsky’s unwritten novel
who in this respect, by the way, is akin to Stavrogin. The hero of _The
Possessed_, with his falls, “abysses,” and depravity, is also akin to
the Great Sinner. The pages about “Tushar’s” boarding-school, the
exposed child, the figure of Lambert in _The Raw Youth_, are taken from
_The Life_. In certain particulars the Great Sinner approaches Ivan
Karamazov and Dmitri Karamazov. Tikhon of _The Life_ passed into _The
Possessed_ and _Brothers Karamazov_ in the characters of the Bishop and
of the old monk Zosima.[112]

Footnote 112:

  A few expressions, typical of Dostoevsky, are found in _The Life_ and
  in his later works: thus, the expression “sacrifice of life” found
  place there and in _Brothers Karamazov_ (Part I. Book I. chap. v. p.
  33; third edition of F. M. Dostoevsky’s Works).

Thus the novel connects the most important works of Dostoevsky’s later
period, and is allied in certain details with the early experiments, for
instance with _Notes from the Underworld_. But much of what he had
planned remained unexecuted and faded in the working out of the chosen
themes. Where is the broad picture of the people’s religious life, with
their world of sectarians and believers of the Old Faith, into which the
Great Sinner plunged? The pale figure of Makar Ivanovich Dolgorukov, the
pilgrim, is very far from corresponding with a great “poem.” The
principal character became much diminished and spiritually toned down in
the “raw youth,” Versilov.

The sketch of the unwritten novel is generally valuable for the light it
throws upon Dostoevsky’s habits of creation. _The novel was not
written._ The huge canvas would not have been covered by the mass of
characters that hovered in the writer’s imagination. The novels
_Atheism_ and _The Life of a Great Sinner_ clearly prove that Dostoevsky
could not cope with the swarm of his creative imagination. He could not
tame and conquer the rush of his elemental visions. His soul burnt too
fiercely to be satisfied with an inferior light. All in flames, his soul
set on fire and destroyed the flashing visions. And it seems as if iron
necessity alone chained the writer to the desk and made it possible for
us to read his works. There is something _accidental_ in the published
works of Dostoevsky. They do not represent the _whole_ creator; they are
paler than his original conceptions.

                                THE END

   _Printed in Great Britain by_ R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, _Edinburgh_.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               FOOTNOTES

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  THE
                             HOGARTH PRESS

                     HOGARTH HOUSE, PARADISE ROAD,
                               RICHMOND.

                         _RECENT PUBLICATIONS_

THE GENTLEMAN FROM SAN FRANCISCO, AND OTHER STORIES. By I. A. BUNIN.
    Translated from the Russian by D. H. LAWRENCE, S. S. KOTELIANSKY,
    and LEONARD WOOLF. 4s. net.

I. A. Bunin is a well-known Russian writer, but his short stories have
not hitherto been published in an English translation. Four stories are
included in this volume. The “Times Literary Supplement” in reviewing a
French translation of the first story in this volume says: “Whatever its
faults this is certainly one of the most impressive stories of modern
times.”

DAYBREAK, a Book of Poems. By FREDEGOND SHOVE. 3s. 6d.

Mrs. Shove has the distinction of being the only woman poet whose work
has been included in _Georgian Poetry_, although she has previously
published only one volume, _Dreams and Journeys_.

KARN. A Poem. By RUTH MANNING-SANDERS. 3s. 6d. net.

This is an ambitious narrative poem by a young writer who has previously
published one book of short poems. Unlike most narrative poems it is
vivid and readable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF COUNTESS SOPHIE TOLSTOI. With Introduction and
    Notes by VASILII SPIRIDONOV. Translated from the Russian by S. S.
    KOTELIANSKY and LEONARD WOOLF. 4s. net.

This autobiography was written by Tolstoi’s wife in 1913 and is
extraordinarily interesting, not only “as a human document,” but in the
light which it throws upon Tolstoi’s life and teaching and on those
relations with his wife and family which led up to his “going away.”
Countess Tolstoi wrote it at the request of the late S. A. Vengerov, a
well-known Russian critic. He intended to publish it, but this intention
was not carried out owing to the war and his death. The MS. was
discovered recently among his papers and has just been published in
Russia. It deals with the whole of Tolstoi’s married life, but in
particular with the differences which arose between him and his wife
over his doctrines and his desire to put them into practice in their way
of living. It also gives an account of Tolstoi’s “going away” and death.
The book is published with an introduction by Vasilii Spiridonov and
notes and appendices which contain information regarding Tolstoi’s life
and teachings not before available to English readers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        _PREVIOUS PUBLICATIONS_

    CLIVE BELL

        Poems. 2s. 6d. net.

    T. S. ELIOT

        Poems. _Out of print._

    E. M. FORSTER

        The Story of the Siren. _Out of print._

    ROGER FRY

        Twelve Original Woodcuts. Third impression. 5s. net.

    MAXIM GORKY

        Reminiscences of Tolstoi. Second edition. 5s. net.

    KATHERINE MANSFIELD

        Prelude. 3s. 6d. net.

    HOPE MIRRLEES

        Paris. A Poem. _Out of print._

    J. MIDDLETON MURRY

        The Critic in Judgment. 2s. 6d. net.

    LOGAN PEARSALL SMITH

        Stories from the Old Testament retold. 4s. 6d. net.

    The Note-books of ANTON TCHEKHOV, together with Reminiscences of
        TCHEKHOV by MAXIM GORKY. 5s. net.

    LEONARD WOOLF

        Stories of the East. 3s. net.

    VIRGINIA WOOLF

        Monday or Tuesday. _With Woodcuts by Vanessa Bell._ 4s. 6d. net.
        The Mark on the Wall. Second edition. 1s. 6d. net. Kew Gardens.
        _Out of print._

    LEONARD & VIRGINIA WOOLF

        Two Stories. _Out of print._

                        REMINISCENCES OF TOLSTOI

                            BY MAXIM GORKY.

                        Second Edition. 5s. net.

                          SOME PRESS OPINIONS

“In these few pages Gorky has laid bare, not completely, but yet
mercilessly, the soul of Tolstoi, and one draws back baffled.”—_Glasgow
Herald._

“If the purpose of biography is to thrill the reader, Gorky has
succeeded in equalling Cellini and in outdoing Audrey.”—Mr. EDMUND GOSSE
in _The Sunday Times_.

“The book did not horrify me; it held me breathless.”—“WAYFARER” in _The
Nation_.

“... a masterpiece: so long as men are interested in one another it must
live.”—_Time and Tide._

“We quote and quote because nearly every line of those brief reflections
or criticisms has its own terrifying clearness.”—_The Observer._

“Sometimes by accident an untouched amateur photograph of a great
personage will drop out of an album or of an old drawer, and instantly
the etchings, the engravings, the portraits by Watts and Millais seem
insipid and lifeless. Such is the effect of Gorky’s Notes on
Tolstoi.”—_New Statesman._

“A book of frank and fearless truth.”—Mr. HAMILTON FYFE.

“All Tolstoi is to be found in it.”—_The Open Court._

                         TCHEKHOV’S NOTE-BOOKS

                Together with Reminiscences of TCHEKHOV
                            by MAXIM GORKY.

                                5s. net.

                          SOME PRESS OPINIONS

“Nothing in this book, we are told, has been translated before, but it
was all worth translating.”—_Times Literary Supplement._

“I regret that they have been published.”—J. MIDDLETON MURRY in the
_Athenaeum_.

“What one feels is what wonderful stories he might have made of
them.”—_Time and Tide._

“Tchekhov’s Note-books have been admirably translated and speak for
themselves.”—_British Weekly._

“To a writer, as one who possibly keeps such note-books himself, they
have the greatest interest. To the general reader they will be
interesting just so far as he or she is concerned with life.”—_Daily
Chronicle._

“The charm of this book is that the reader has the sensation of
perfectly intimate, easy intercourse with Tchekhov himself.”—_New
Statesman._

“It is, as it were, the rude ore of inspiration and observation, from
which literary metal of a high quality might have come.”—_Sheffield
Independent._

“His ‘notes’ are like flashlights which catch human nature off its guard
at critical moments.”—_Manchester Guardian._

                           MONDAY OR TUESDAY

                           BY VIRGINIA WOOLF.

                     With Woodcuts by VANESSA BELL.

                          91 pp. 4s. 6d. net.

                             PRESS OPINIONS

“But here is ‘Kew Gardens’—a work of art, made, ‘created,’ as we say,
finished, four-square; a thing of original and therefore strange beauty
with its own atmosphere, its own vital force.... The more one gloats
over ‘Kew Gardens,’ the more beauty shines out of it ... and the more
one likes Mrs. Bell’s Kew Garden woodcuts.”—_The Times._

“‘The Mark on the Wall’ is a wonderful description.”—_The New
Statesman._

“No one who values beauty in words should miss ‘The Haunted
House.’”—_Daily News._

“And how amazingly it is rendered! No one interested in the expression
of modern thought through modern art should miss these consummate
renderings.... There is imagination here, insight and honesty. Mrs.
Woolf’s style is individual, and so exquisitely suited to its subject
that her pictures do not seem made with words, but with the very stuff
of our mental processes.”—_Observer._

“It is a new thing, made up of a new way of using words and a new way of
suggesting emotions.”—_Woman’s Leader._

“The beauty—not only of her writing, but of what she sees and gets
through into it—is at times overwhelming. ‘A Haunted House’ is a little
masterpiece; like nothing else one has ever seen so much as tried in
prose.”—_Time and Tide._

“In ‘Monday or Tuesday,’ Virginia Woolf has added some fine examples of
her imaginative genius to the two stories already printed.”—_Manchester
Guardian._

------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ● Transcriber’s Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was corrected.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.
    ○ Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation were made consistent only
      when a predominant form was found in this book.
    ○ Text that was in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_).

================================================================================

Produced by David Widger

INDEX OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG

WORKS OF

FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY

Compiled by David Widger

CONTENTS

##  NOTES FROM THE UNDERGROUND

##  THE GAMBLER

##  POOR FOLK

##  CRIME AND PUNISHMENT

##  THE IDIOT

##  THE POSSESSED

##  THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV

##  WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER STORIES

##  THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD

##  UNCLE'S DREAM; PERMANENT HUSBAND

##  SHORT STORIES

##  STAVROGIN'S CONFESSION; THE LIFE OF A GREAT SINNER

THE GRAND INQUISITOR

TABLES OF CONTENTS OF VOLUMES

NOTES FROM THE UNDERGROUND
By Fyodor Dostoyevsky

CONTENTS
PART I
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
PART II
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X

THE GAMBLER
Fyodor Dostoyevsky
Translated by C. J. Hogarth

CONTENTS
I	II	III	IV	V	VI	VII	VIII	IX	X	XI	XII	XIII	XIV	XV	XVI	XVII

POOR FOLK
By Fyodor Dostoyevsky
Translated by C. J. Hogarth

CONTENTS
April 8th
April 8th
April 8th
April 9th
April 12th
April 25th
May 20th
June 1st
June 11th
June 12th.
June 20th.
June 21st.
June 22nd.
June 25th.
June 26th.
June 27th.
June 28th.
July 1st.
July 7th.
July 8th.
July 27th.
July 28th.
July 28th.
July 29th.
August 1st.
August 2nd.
August 3rd.
August 4th.
August 4th.
August 5th.
August 5th.
August 11th.
August 13th.
August 14th.
August 19th.
August 21st.
September 3rd.
September 5th.
September 9th.
September 10th.
September 11th.
September 15th.
September 18th.
September 19th.
September 23rd.
September 23rd.
September 27th.
September 27th.
September 28th.
September 28th.
September 29th.
September 30th.

CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
By Fyodor Dostoevsky
Translated By Constance Garnett

CONTENTS
TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE
CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
PART I
CHAPTER I
CHAPTER II
CHAPTER III
CHAPTER IV
CHAPTER V
CHAPTER VI
CHAPTER VII
PART II
CHAPTER I
CHAPTER II
CHAPTER III
CHAPTER IV
CHAPTER V
CHAPTER VI
CHAPTER VII
PART III
CHAPTER I
CHAPTER II
CHAPTER III
CHAPTER IV
CHAPTER V
CHAPTER VI
PART IV
CHAPTER I
CHAPTER II
CHAPTER III
CHAPTER IV
CHAPTER V
CHAPTER VI
PART V
CHAPTER I
CHAPTER II
CHAPTER III
CHAPTER IV
CHAPTER V
PART VI
CHAPTER I
CHAPTER II
CHAPTER III
CHAPTER IV
CHAPTER V
CHAPTER VI
CHAPTER VII
CHAPTER VIII
EPILOGUE

THE IDIOT
By Fyodor Dostoyevsky
Translated by Eva Martin

CONTENTS
PART I
PART II
PART III
PART IV

THE POSSESSED, or THE DEVILS
A Novel In Three Parts
By Fyodor Dostoevsky
Translated From The Russian By Constance Garnett
CONTENTS
PART I.
CHAPTER I.	INTRODUCTORY
CHAPTER II.	PRINCE HARRY. MATCHMAKING
CHAPTER III.	THE SINS OF OTHERS
CHAPTER IV.	THE CRIPPLE
CHAPTER V.	THE SUBTLE SERPENT
PART II.
CHAPTER I.	NIGHT
CHAPTER II.	NIGHT (continued)
CHAPTER III.	THE DUEL
CHAPTER IV.	ALL IN EXPECTATION
CHAPTER V.	ON THE EVE OF THE FETE
CHAPTER VI.	PYOTR STEPANOVITCH IS BUSY
CHAPTER VII.	A MEETING
CHAPTER VIII.   	IVAN THE TSAREVITCH
CHAPTER IX.	A RAID AT STEPAN TROFIMOVITCH’S
CHAPTER X.	FILIBUSTERS. A FATAL MORNING
PART III.
CHAPTER I.	THE FETE—FIRST PART
CHAPTER II.	THE END OF THE FETE
CHAPTER III.	A ROMANCE ENDED
CHAPTER IV.	THE LAST RESOLUTION
CHAPTER V.	A WANDERER
CHAPTER VI.	A BUSY NIGHT
CHAPTER VII.	STEPAN TROFIMOVITCH’S LAST WANDERING
CHAPTER VIII.	CONCLUSION

THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV
Translated from the Russian of Fyodor Dostoyevsky
By Constance Garnett
CONTENTS
Part I
Book I. The History Of A Family
Chapter I. Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov
Chapter II. He Gets Rid Of His Eldest Son
Chapter III. The Second Marriage And The Second Family
Chapter IV. The Third Son, Alyosha
Chapter V. Elders
Book II. An Unfortunate Gathering
Chapter I. They Arrive At The Monastery
Chapter II. The Old Buffoon
Chapter III. Peasant Women Who Have Faith
Chapter IV. A Lady Of Little Faith
Chapter V. So Be It! So Be It!
Chapter VI. Why Is Such A Man Alive?
Chapter VII. A Young Man Bent On A Career
Chapter VIII. The Scandalous Scene
Book III. The Sensualists
Chapter I. In The Servants' Quarters
Chapter II. Lizaveta
Chapter III. The Confession Of A Passionate Heart-In Verse
Chapter IV. The Confession Of A Passionate Heart-In Anecdote
Chapter V. The Confession Of A Passionate Heart-"Heels Up"
Chapter VI. Smerdyakov
Chapter VII. The Controversy
Chapter VIII. Over The Brandy
Chapter IX. The Sensualists
Chapter X. Both Together
Chapter XI. Another Reputation Ruined
Part II
Book IV. Lacerations
Chapter I. Father Ferapont
Chapter II. At His Father's
Chapter III. A Meeting With The Schoolboys
Chapter IV. At The Hohlakovs'
Chapter V. A Laceration In The Drawing-Room
Chapter VI. A Laceration In The Cottage
Chapter VII. And In The Open Air
Book V. Pro And Contra
Chapter I. The Engagement
Chapter II. Smerdyakov With A Guitar
Chapter III. The Brothers Make Friends
Chapter IV. Rebellion
Chapter V. The Grand Inquisitor
Chapter VI. For Awhile A Very Obscure One
Chapter VII. "It's Always Worth While Speaking To A Clever Man"
Book VI. The Russian Monk
Chapter I. Father Zossima And His Visitors
Chapter II. The Duel
Chapter III. Conversations And Exhortations Of Father Zossima
Part III
Book VII. Alyosha
Chapter I. The Breath Of Corruption
Chapter II. A Critical Moment
Chapter III. An Onion
Chapter IV. Cana Of Galilee
Book VIII. Mitya
Chapter I. Kuzma Samsonov
Chapter II. Lyagavy
Chapter III. Gold-Mines
Chapter IV. In The Dark
Chapter V. A Sudden Resolution
Chapter VI. "I Am Coming, Too!"
Chapter VII. The First And Rightful Lover
Chapter VIII. Delirium
Book IX. The Preliminary Investigation
Chapter I. The Beginning Of Perhotin's Official Career
Chapter II. The Alarm
Chapter III. The Sufferings Of A Soul, The First Ordeal
Chapter IV. The Second Ordeal
Chapter V. The Third Ordeal
Chapter VI. The Prosecutor Catches Mitya
Chapter VII. Mitya's Great Secret. Received With Hisses
Chapter VIII. The Evidence Of The Witnesses. The Babe
Chapter IX. They Carry Mitya Away
Part IV
Book X. The Boys
Chapter I. Kolya Krassotkin
Chapter II. Children
Chapter III. The Schoolboy
Chapter IV. The Lost Dog
Chapter V. By Ilusha's Bedside
Chapter VI. Precocity
Chapter VII. Ilusha
Book XI. Ivan
Chapter I. At Grushenka's
Chapter II. The Injured Foot
Chapter III. A Little Demon
Chapter IV. A Hymn And A Secret
Chapter V. Not You, Not You!
Chapter VI. The First Interview With Smerdyakov
Chapter VII. The Second Visit To Smerdyakov
Chapter VIII. The Third And Last Interview With Smerdyakov
Chapter IX. The Devil. Ivan's Nightmare
Chapter X. "It Was He Who Said That"
Book XII. A Judicial Error
Chapter I. The Fatal Day
Chapter II. Dangerous Witnesses
Chapter III. The Medical Experts And A Pound Of Nuts
Chapter IV. Fortune Smiles On Mitya
Chapter V. A Sudden Catastrophe
Chapter VI. The Prosecutor's Speech. Sketches Of Character
Chapter VII. An Historical Survey
Chapter VIII. A Treatise On Smerdyakov
Chapter IX. The Galloping Troika. The End Of The Prosecutor's Speech.
Chapter X. The Speech For The Defense. An Argument That Cuts Both Ways
Chapter XI. There Was No Money. There Was No Robbery
Chapter XII. And There Was No Murder Either
Chapter XIII. A Corrupter Of Thought
Chapter XIV. The Peasants Stand Firm
Epilogue
Chapter I. Plans For Mitya's Escape
Chapter II. For A Moment The Lie Becomes Truth
Chapter III. Ilusha's Funeral. The Speech At The Stone
Footnotes

WHITE NIGHTS AND OTHER STORIES
By Fyodor Dostoevsky
CONTENTS
page
White Nights	1
Notes from Underground—
     part i. underground	50
     part ii. à propos of the wet snow	81
A Faint Heart	156
A Christmas Tree and a Wedding	200
Polzunkov	208
A Little Hero	223
Mr. Prohartchin	258

THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD
By Fedor Dostoïeffsky
CONTENTS
PART I
CHAP.	PAGE
I.	  Ten Years a Convict	1
II.	  The Dead-House	7
III.	  First Impressions	24
IV.	  First Impressions (continued)	43
V.	  First Impressions (continued)	61
VI.	  The First Month	80
VII.	  The First Month (continued)	95
VIII.	  New Acquaintances—Petroff	110
IX.	  Men of Determination—Luka	125
X.	  Isaiah Fomitch—The Bath—Baklouchin	133
XI.	  The Christmas Holidays	152
XII.	  The Performance	171
PART II
I.	  The Hospital	194
II.	  The Hospital (continued)	209
III.	  The Hospital (continued)	225
IV.	  The Husband of Akoulka	248
V.	  The Summer Season	264
VI.	  The Animals at the Convict Establishment  	286
VII.	  Grievances	302
VIII.	  My Companions	325
IX.	  The Escape	344
X.	  Freedom!	363

UNCLE'S DREAM AND THE PERMANENT HUSBAND
By Fedor Dostoieffsky
Translated from the original Russian by Fred Whishaw
CONTENTS OF UNCLE'S DREAM
CHAPTER I.
CHAPTER II.
CHAPTER III.
CHAPTER IV.
CHAPTER V.
CHAPTER VI.
CHAPTER VII.
CHAPTER VIII.
CHAPTER IX.
CHAPTER X.
CHAPTER XI.
CHAPTER XII.
CHAPTER XIII.
CHAPTER XIV.
CHAPTER XV.
Footnotes
CONTENTS OF THE PERMANENT HUSBAND
CHAPTER I.
CHAPTER II.
CHAPTER III.
CHAPTER IV.
CHAPTER V.
CHAPTER VI.
CHAPTER VII.
CHAPTER VIII.
CHAPTER IX.
CHAPTER X.
CHAPTER XI.
CHAPTER XII.
CHAPTER XIII.
CHAPTER XIV.
CHAPTER XV.
CHAPTER XVI.
CHAPTER XVII.

SHORT STORIES
By Fiodor Dostoievski

CONTENTS
An Honest Thief	 	1
A Novel in Nine Letters	 	21
An Unpleasant Predicament	 	36
Another Man's Wife	 	101
The Heavenly Christmas Tree	 	151
The Peasant Marey	 	156
The Crocodile	 	163
Bobok	 	205
The Dream of a Ridiculous Man	 	225

STAVROGIN'S CONFESSION
AND THE PLAN OF THE LIFE OF A GREAT SINNER
By F. M. Dostoevsky
Translated By S. S. Koteliansky And Virginia Woolf

CONTENTS
 	PAGE
Translators' Note	5
New MSS. of F. M. Dostoevsky: Note by the Russian Government	9
Stavrogin's Confession. By F. M. Dostoevsky	17
The Plan of The Life of a Great Sinner. By F. M. Dostoevsky	85
Stavrogin's Meeting with Tikhon. By V. Friche	115
Introduction to the Unpublished Chapter of The Possessed. By V. Komarovich	125
The Unfulfilled Idea: Note on The Life of a Great Sinner. By N. Brodsky	145
Footnotes	171

================================================================================

THE GRAND INQUISITOR

By

Feodor Dostoevsky

(Translation by H.P. Blavatsky)

[Dedicated by the Translator to those sceptics who clamour so
loudly, both in print and private letters--"Show us the
wonder-working 'Brothers,' let them come out publicly--and we will
believe in them!"]

[The following is an extract from M. Dostoevsky's celebrated
novel, The Brothers Karamazof, the last publication from the pen
of the great Russian novelist, who died a few months ago, just as
the concluding chapters appeared in print. Dostoevsky is
beginning to be recognized as one of the ablest and profoundest
among Russian writers. His characters are invariably typical
portraits drawn from various classes of Russian society,
strikingly life-like and realistic to the highest degree. The
following extract is a cutting satire on modern theology
generally and the Roman Catholic religion in particular. The idea
is that Christ revisits earth, coming to Spain at the period of
the Inquisition, and is at once arrested as a heretic by the
Grand Inquisitor. One of the three brothers of the story, Ivan, a
rank materialist and an atheist of the new school, is supposed to
throw this conception into the form of a poem, which he describes
to Alyosha--the youngest of the brothers, a young Christian
mystic brought up by a "saint" in a monastery--as follows:
(--Ed. Theosophist, Nov., 1881)]

"Quite impossible, as you see, to start without an introduction,"
laughed Ivan. "Well, then, I mean to place the event described in
the poem in the sixteenth century, an age--as you must have been
told at school--when it was the great fashion among poets to
make the denizens and powers of higher worlds descend on earth
and mix freely with mortals... In France all the notaries'
clerks, and the monks in the cloisters as well, used to give
grand performances, dramatic plays in which long scenes were
enacted by the Madonna, the angels, the saints, Christ, and even
by God Himself. In those days, everything was very artless and
primitive. An instance of it may be found in Victor Hugo's drama,
Notre Dame de Paris, where, at the Municipal Hall, a play called
Le Bon Jugement de la Tres-sainte et GraciÃ¨use Vierge Marie, is
enacted in honour of Louis XI, in which the Virgin appears
personally to pronounce her 'good judgment.' In Moscow, during
the prepetrean period, performances of nearly the same character,
chosen especially from the Old Testament, were also in great
favour. Apart from such plays, the world was overflooded with
mystical writings, 'verses'--the heroes of which were always
selected from the ranks of angels, saints and other heavenly
citizens answering to the devotional purposes of the age. The
recluses of our monasteries, like the Roman Catholic monks,
passed their time in translating, copying, and even producing
original compositions upon such subjects, and that, remember,
during the Tarter period!... In this connection, I am reminded of
a poem compiled in a convent--a translation from the Greek, of
course--called, 'The Travels of the Mother of God among the
Damned,' with fitting illustrations and a boldness of conception
inferior nowise to that of Dante. The 'Mother of God' visits
hell, in company with the archangel Michael as her cicerone to
guide her through the legions of the 'damned.' She sees them all,
and is witness to their multifarious tortures. Among the many
other exceedingly remarkably varieties of torments--every
category of sinners having its own--there  is one especially
worthy of notice, namely a class of the 'damned' sentenced to
gradually sink in a burning lake of brimstone and fire. Those
whose sins cause them to sink so low that they no longer can rise
to the surface are for ever forgotten by God, i.e., they fade out
from the omniscient memory, says the poem--an expression, by the
way, of an extraordinary profundity of thought, when closely
analysed. The Virgin is terribly shocked, and falling down upon
her knees in tears before the throne of God, begs that all she
has seen in hell--all, all without exception, should have their
sentences remitted to them. Her dialogue with God is colossally
interesting. She supplicates, she will not leave Him. And when
God, pointing to the pierced hands and feet of her Son, cries,
'How can I forgive His executioners?' She then commands that all
the saints, martyrs, angels and archangels, should prostrate
themselves with her before the Immutable and Changeless One and
implore Him to change His wrath into mercy and--forgive them
all. The poem closes upon her obtaining from God a compromise, a
kind of yearly respite of tortures between Good Friday and
Trinity, a chorus of the 'damned' singing loud praises to God
from their 'bottomless pit,' thanking and telling Him:

  Thou art right, O Lord, very right,
  Thou hast condemned us justly.

"My poem is of the same character.

"In it, it is Christ who appears on the scene. True, He says
nothing, but only appears and passes out of sight. Fifteen
centuries have elapsed since He left the world with the distinct
promise to return 'with power and great glory'; fifteen long
centuries since His prophet cried, 'Prepare ye the way of the
Lord!' since He Himself had foretold, while yet on earth, 'Of
that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven
but my Father only.' But Christendom expects Him still. ...

"It waits for Him with the same old faith and the same emotion;
aye, with a far greater faith, for fifteen centuries have rolled
away since the last sign from heaven was sent to man,

  And blind faith remained alone
  To lull the trusting heart,
  As heav'n would send a sign no more.

"True, again, we have all heard of miracles being wrought ever
since the 'age of miracles' passed away to return no more. We
had, and still have, our saints credited with performing the most
miraculous cures; and, if we can believe their biographers, there
have been those among them who have been personally visited by
the Queen of Heaven. But Satan sleepeth not, and the first germs
of doubt, and ever-increasing unbelief in such wonders, already
had begun to sprout in Christendom as early as the sixteenth
century. It was just at that time that a new and terrible heresy
first made its appearance in the north of Germany.*   [*Luther's
reform]  A great star 'shining as it were a lamp... fell upon the
fountains waters'... and 'they were made bitter.' This 'heresy'
blasphemously denied 'miracles.' But those who had remained
faithful believed all the more ardently, the tears of mankind
ascended to Him as heretofore, and the Christian world was
expecting Him as confidently as ever; they loved Him and hoped in
Him, thirsted and hungered to suffer and die for Him just as many
of them had done before.... So many centuries had weak, trusting
humanity implored Him, crying with ardent faith and fervour: 'How
long, O Lord, holy and true, dost Thou not come!' So many long
centuries hath it vainly appealed to Him, that at last, in His
inexhaustible compassion, He consenteth to answer the prayer....
He decideth that once more, if it were but for one short hour,
the people--His long-suffering, tortured, fatally sinful, his
loving and child-like, trusting people--shall behold Him again.
The scene of action is placed by me in Spain, at Seville, during
that terrible period of the Inquisition, when, for the greater
glory of God, stakes were flaming all over the country.

  Burning wicked heretics,
  In grand auto-da-fes.

"This particular visit has, of course, nothing to do with the
promised Advent, when, according to the programme, 'after the
tribulation of those days,' He will appear 'coming in the clouds
of heaven.' For, that 'coming of the Son of Man,' as we are
informed, will take place as suddenly 'as the lightning cometh
out of the east and shineth even unto the west.' No; this once,
He desired to come unknown, and appear among His children, just
when the bones of the heretics, sentenced to be burnt alive, had
commenced crackling at the flaming stakes. Owing to His limitless
mercy, He mixes once more with mortals and in the same form in
which He was wont to appear fifteen centuries ago. He descends,
just at the very moment when before king, courtiers, knights,
cardinals, and the fairest dames of court, before the whole
population of Seville, upwards of a hundred wicked heretics are
being roasted, in a magnificent auto-da-fe ad majorem Dei
gloriam, by the order of the powerful Cardinal Grand Inquisitor.

"He comes silently and unannounced; yet all--how strange--yea,
all recognize Him, at once! The population rushes towards Him as
if propelled by some irresistible force; it surrounds, throngs,
and presses around, it follows Him.... Silently, and with a smile
of boundless compassion upon His lips, He crosses the dense
crowd, and moves softly on. The Sun of Love burns in His heart,
and warm rays of Light, Wisdom and Power beam forth from His
eyes, and pour down their waves upon the swarming multitudes of
the rabble assembled around, making their hearts vibrate with
returning love. He extends His hands over their heads, blesses
them, and from mere contact with Him, aye, even with His
garments, a healing power goes forth. An old man, blind from his
birth, cries, 'Lord, heal me, that I may see Thee!' and the
scales falling off the closed eyes, the blind man beholds Him...
The crowd weeps for joy, and kisses the ground upon which He
treads. Children strew flowers along His path and sing to Him,
'Hosanna!' It is He, it is Himself, they say to each other, it
must be He, it can be none other but He! He pauses at the portal
of the old cathedral, just as a wee white coffin is carried in,
with tears and great lamentations. The lid is off, and in the
coffin lies the body of a fair-child, seven years old, the only
child of an eminent citizen of the city. The little corpse lies
buried in flowers. 'He will raise the child to life!' confidently
shouts the crowd to the weeping mother. The officiating priest
who had come to meet the funeral procession, looks perplexed, and
frowns. A loud cry is suddenly heard, and the bereaved mother
prostrates herself at His feet. 'If it be Thou, then bring back
my child to life!' she cries beseechingly. The procession halts,
and the little coffin is gently lowered at his feet. Divine
compassion beams forth from His eyes, and as He looks at the
child, His lips are heard to whisper once more, 'Talitha
Cumi'--and 'straightway the damsel arose.' The child rises in her
coffin. Her little hands still hold the nosegay of white roses
which after death was placed in them, and, looking round with
large astonished eyes she smiles sweetly .... The crowd is
violently excited. A terrible commotion rages among them, the
populace shouts and loudly weeps, when suddenly, before the
cathedral door, appears the Cardinal Grand Inquisitor himself....
He is tall, gaunt-looking old man of nearly four-score years and
ten, with a stern, withered face, and deeply sunken eyes, from
the cavity of which glitter two fiery sparks. He has laid aside
his gorgeous cardinal's robes in which he had appeared before the
people at the auto da-fe of the enemies of the Romish Church, and
is now clad in his old, rough, monkish cassock. His sullen
assistants and slaves of the 'holy guard' are following at a
distance. He pauses before the crowd and observes. He has seen
all. He has witnessed the placing of the little coffin at His
feet, the calling back to life. And now, his dark, grim face has
grown still darker; his bushy grey eyebrows nearly meet, and his
sunken eye flashes with sinister light. Slowly raising his
finger, he commands his minions to arrest Him....

"Such is his power over the well-disciplined, submissive and now
trembling people, that the thick crowds immediately give way, and
scattering before the guard, amid dead silence and without one
breath of protest, allow them to lay their sacrilegious hands
upon the stranger and lead Him away.... That same populace, like
one man, now bows its head to the ground before the old
Inquisitor, who blesses it and slowly moves onward. The guards
conduct their prisoner to the ancient building of the Holy
Tribunal; pushing Him into a narrow, gloomy, vaulted prison-cell,
they lock Him in and retire....

"The day wanes, and night--a dark, hot breathless Spanish
night--creeps on and settles upon the city of Seville. The air smells
of laurels and orange blossoms. In the Cimmerian darkness of the
old Tribunal Hall the iron door of the cell is suddenly thrown
open, and the Grand Inquisitor, holding a dark lantern, slowly
stalks into the dungeon. He is alone, and, as the heavy door
closes behind him, he pauses at the threshold, and, for a minute
or two, silently and gloomily scrutinizes the Face before him. At
last approaching with measured steps, he sets his lantern down
upon the table and addresses Him in these words:

"'It is Thou! ... Thou!' ... Receiving no reply, he rapidly
continues: 'Nay, answer not; be silent! ... And what couldst Thou
say? ... I know but too well Thy answer.... Besides, Thou hast no
right to add one syllable to that which was already uttered by
Thee before.... Why shouldst Thou now return, to impede us in our
work? For Thou hast come but for that only, and Thou knowest it
well. But art Thou as well aware of what awaits Thee in the
morning? I do not know, nor do I care to know who thou mayest be:
be it Thou or only thine image, to-morrow I will condemn and burn
Thee on the stake, as the most wicked of all the heretics; and
that same people, who to-day were kissing Thy feet, to-morrow at
one bend of my finger, will rush to add fuel to Thy funeral
pile... Wert Thou aware of this?' he adds, speaking as if in
solemn thought, and never for one instant taking his piercing
glance off the meek Face before him."....

"I can hardly realize the situation described--what is all
this, Ivan?" suddenly interrupted Alyosha, who had remained
silently listening to his brother. "Is this an extravagant fancy,
or some mistake of the old man, an impossible quid pro quo?"

"Let it be the latter, if you like," laughed Ivan, "since modern
realism has so perverted your taste that you feel unable to
realize anything from the world of fancy.... Let it be a quid pro
quo, if you so choose it. Again, the Inquisitor is ninety years
old, and he might have easily gone mad with his one idee fixe of
power; or, it might have as well been a delirious vision, called
forth by dying fancy, overheated by the auto-da-fe of the hundred
heretics in that forenoon.... But what matters for the poem,
whether it was a quid pro quo or an uncontrollable fancy? The
question is, that the old man has to open his heart; that he must
give out his thought at last; and that the hour has come when he
does speak it out, and says loudly that which for ninety years he
has kept secret within his own breast."

"And his prisoner, does He never reply? Does He keep silent,
looking at him, without saying a word?"

"Of course; and it could not well be otherwise," again retorted
Ivan. "The Grand Inquisitor begins from his very first words by
telling Him that He has no right to add one syllable to that which
He had said before. To make the situation clear at once, the above
preliminary monologue is intended to convey to the reader the very
fundamental idea which underlies Roman Catholicism--as well as I
can convey it, his words mean, in short: 'Everything was given
over by Thee to the Pope, and everything now rests with him alone;
Thou hast no business to return and thus hinder us in our work.'
In this sense the Jesuits not only talk but write likewise.

"'Hast thou the right to divulge to us a single one of the
mysteries of that world whence Thou comest?' enquires of Him my
old Inquisitor, and forthwith answers for Him. 'Nay, Thou has no
such right. For, that would be adding to that which was already
said by Thee before; hence depriving people of that freedom for
which Thou hast so stoutly stood up while yet on earth....
Anything new that Thou would now proclaim would have to be
regarded as an attempt to interfere with that freedom of choice,
as it would come as a new and a miraculous revelation superseding
the old revelation of fifteen hundred years ago, when Thou didst
so repeatedly tell the people: "The truth shall make you free."
Behold then, Thy "free" people now!' adds the old man with sombre
irony. 'Yea!... it has cost us dearly.' he continues, sternly
looking at his victim. 'But we have at last accomplished our
task, and--in Thy name.... For fifteen long centuries we had to
toil and suffer owing to that "freedom": but now we have
prevailed and our work is done, and well and strongly it is done.
....Believest not Thou it is so very strong? ... And why should
Thou look at me so meekly as if I were not worthy even of Thy
indignation?... Know then, that now, and only now, Thy people
feel fully sure and satisfied of their freedom; and that only
since they have themselves and of their own free will delivered
that freedom unto our hands by placing it submissively at our
feet. But then, that is what we have done. Is it that which Thou
has striven for? Is this the kind of "freedom" Thou has promised
them?'"

"Now again, I do not understand," interrupted Alyosha. "Does the
old man mock and laugh?"

"Not in the least. He seriously regards it as a great service
done by himself, his brother monks and Jesuits, to humanity, to
have conquered and subjected unto their authority that freedom,
and boasts that it was done but for the good of the world. 'For
only now,' he says (speaking of the Inquisition) 'has it become
possible to us, for the first time, to give a serious thought to
human happiness. Man is born a rebel, and can rebels be ever
happy?... Thou has been fairly warned of it, but evidently to no
use, since Thou hast rejected the only means which could make
mankind happy; fortunately at Thy departure Thou hast delivered
the task to us.... Thou has promised, ratifying the pledge by Thy
own words, in words giving us the right to bind and unbind... and
surely, Thou couldst not think of depriving us of it now!'"

"But what can he mean by the words, 'Thou has been fairly
warned'?" asked Alexis.

"These words give the key to what the old man has to say for his
justification... But listen--

"'The terrible and wise spirit, the spirit of self annihilation
and non-being,' goes on the Inquisitor, 'the great spirit of
negation conversed with Thee in the wilderness, and we are told
that he "tempted" Thee... Was it so? And if it were so, then it is
impossible to utter anything more truthful than what is contained
in his three offers, which Thou didst reject, and which are
usually called "temptations." Yea; if ever there was on earth a
genuine striking wonder produced, it was on that day of Thy three
temptations, and it is precisely in these three short sentences
that the marvelous miracle is contained. If it were possible that
they should vanish and disappear for ever, without leaving any
trace, from the record and from the memory of man, and that it
should become necessary again to devise, invent, and make them
reappear in Thy history once more, thinkest Thou that all the
world's sages, all the legislators, initiates, philosophers and
thinkers, if called upon to frame three questions which should,
like these, besides answering the magnitude of the event, express
in three short sentences the whole future history of  this our
world and of mankind--dost Thou believe, I ask Thee, that all
their combined efforts could ever create anything equal in power
and depth of thought to the three propositions offered Thee by the
powerful and all-wise spirit in the wilderness? Judging of them by
their marvelous aptness alone, one can at once perceive that they
emanated not from a finite, terrestrial intellect, but indeed,
from the Eternal and the Absolute. In these three offers we find,
blended into one and foretold to us, the complete subsequent
history of man; we are shown three images, so to say, uniting in
them all the future axiomatic, insoluble problems and
contradictions of human nature, the world over. In those days, the
wondrous wisdom contained in them was not made so apparent as it
is now, for futurity remained still veiled; but now, when fifteen
centuries have elapsed, we see that everything in these three
questions is so marvelously foreseen and foretold, that to add to,
or to take away from, the prophecy one jot, would be absolutely
impossible!

"'Decide then thyself.' sternly proceeded the Inquisitor, 'which
of ye twain was right: Thou who didst reject, or he who offered?
Remember the subtle meaning of question the first, which runs
thus: Wouldst Thou go into the world empty-handed? Would Thou
venture thither with Thy vague and undefined promise of freedom,
which men, dull and unruly as they are by nature, are unable so
much as to understand, which they avoid and fear?--for never was
there anything more unbearable to the human race than personal
freedom! Dost Thou see these stones in the desolate and glaring
wilderness? Command that these stones be made bread--and mankind
will run after Thee, obedient and grateful like a herd of cattle.
But even then it will be ever diffident and trembling, lest Thou
should take away Thy hand, and they lose thereby their bread!
Thou didst refuse to accept the offer for fear of depriving men
of their free choice; for where is there freedom of choice where
men are bribed with bread? Man shall not live by bread
alone--was Thine answer. Thou knewest not, it seems, that it was
precisely in the name of that earthly bread that the terrestrial
spirit would one day rise against, struggle with, and finally
conquer Thee, followed by the hungry multitudes shouting: "Who is
like unto that Beast, who maketh fire come down from heaven upon
the earth!" Knowest Thou not that, but a few centuries hence, and
the whole of mankind will have proclaimed in its wisdom and
through its mouthpiece, Science, that there is no more crime,
hence no more sin on earth, but only hungry people? "Feed us
first and then command us to be virtuous!" will be the words
written upon the banner lifted against Thee--a banner which
shall destroy Thy Church to its very foundations,  and in the
place of Thy Temple shall raise once more the terrible Tower of
Babel; and though its building be left unfinished, as was that of
the first one, yet the fact will remain recorded that Thou
couldst, but wouldst not, prevent the attempt to build that new
tower by accepting the offer, and thus saving mankind a
millennium of useless suffering on earth. And it is to us that
the people will return again. They will search for us catacombs,
as we shall once more be persecuted and martyred--and they will
begin crying unto us: "Feed us, for they who promised us the fire
from heaven have deceived us!" It is then that we will finish
building their tower for them. For they alone who feed them shall
finish it, and we shall feed them in Thy name, and lying to them
that it is in that name. Oh, never, never, will they learn to
feed themselves without our help! No science will ever give them
bread so long as they remain free, so long as they refuse to lay
that freedom at our feet, and say: "Enslave, but feed us!" That
day must come when men will understand that freedom and daily
bread enough to satisfy all are unthinkable and can never be had
together, as men will never be able to fairly divide the two
among themselves. And they will also learn that they can never be
free, for they are weak, vicious, miserable nonentities born
wicked and rebellious. Thou has promised to them the bread of
life, the bread of  heaven; but I ask Thee again, can that bread
ever equal in the sight of the weak and the vicious, the ever
ungrateful human race, their daily bread on earth? And even
supposing that thousands and tens of thousands follow Thee in the
name of, and for the sake of, Thy heavenly bread, what will
become of the millions and hundreds of millions of human beings
to weak to scorn the earthly for the sake of Thy heavenly bread?
Or is it but those tens of thousands chosen among the great and
the mighty, that are so dear to Thee, while the remaining
millions, innumerable as the grains of sand in the seas, the weak
and the loving, have to be used as material for the former? No,
no! In our sight and for our purpose the weak and the lowly are
the more dear to us. True, they are vicious and rebellious, but
we will force them into obedience, and it is they who will admire
us the most. They will regard us as gods, and feel grateful to
those who have consented to lead the masses and bear their burden
of freedom by ruling over them--so terrible will that freedom at
last appear to men! Then we will tell them that it is in
obedience to Thy will and in Thy name that we rule over them. We
will deceive them once more and lie to them once again--for
never, never more will we allow Thee to come among us. In this
deception we will find our suffering, for we must needs lie
eternally, and never cease to lie!

"Such is the secret meaning of "temptation" the first, and that
is what Thou didst reject in the wilderness for the sake of that
freedom which Thou didst prize above all. Meanwhile Thy tempter's
offer contained another great world-mystery. By accepting the
"bread," Thou wouldst have satisfied and answered a universal
craving, a ceaseless longing alive in the heart of every
individual human being, lurking in the breast of collective
mankind, that most perplexing problem--"whom or what shall we
worship?" There exists no greater or more painful anxiety for a
man who has freed himself from all religious bias, than how he
shall soonest find a new object or idea to worship. But man seeks
to bow before that only which is recognized by the greater
majority, if not by all his fellow-men, as having a right to be
worshipped; whose rights are so unquestionable that men agree
unanimously to bow down to it. For the chief concern of these
miserable creatures is not to find and worship the idol of their
own choice, but to discover that which all others will believe
in, and consent to bow down to in a mass. It is that instinctive
need of having a worship in common that is the chief suffering of
every man, the chief concern of mankind from the beginning of
times. It is for that universality of religious worship that
people destroyed each other by sword. Creating gods unto
themselves, they forwith began appealing to each other: "Abandon
your deities, come and bow down to ours, or death to ye and your
idols!" And so will they do till the end of this world; they will
do so even then, when all the gods themselves have disappeared,
for then men will prostrate themselves before and worship some
idea. Thou didst know, Thou couldst not be ignorant of, that
mysterious fundamental principle in human nature, and still thou
hast rejected the only absolute banner offered Thee, to which all
the nations would remain true, and before which all would have
bowed--the banner of earthly bread, rejected in the name of
freedom and of "bread in the kingdom of God"! Behold, then, what
Thou hast done furthermore for that "freedom's" sake! I repeat to
Thee, man has no greater anxiety in life than to find some one to
whom he can make over that gift of freedom with which the
unfortunate creature is born. But he alone will prove capable of
silencing and quieting their consciences, that shall succeed in
possessing himself of the freedom of men. With "daily bread" an
irresistible power was offered Thee: show a man "bread" and he
will follow Thee, for what can he resist less than the attraction
of bread? But if, at the same time, another succeed in possessing
himself of his conscience--oh! then even Thy bread will be
forgotten, and man will follow him who seduced his conscience. So
far Thou wert right. For the mystery of human being does not
solely rest in the desire to live, but in the problem--for what
should one live at all? Without a clear perception of his reasons
for living, man will never consent to live, and will rather
destroy himself than tarry on earth, though he be surrounded with
bread. This is the truth. But what has happened? Instead of
getting hold of man's freedom, Thou has enlarged it still more!
Hast Thou again forgotten that to man rest and even death are
preferable to a free choice between the knowledge of Good and
Evil? Nothing seems more seductive in his eyes than freedom of
conscience, and nothing proves more painful. And behold! instead
of laying a firm foundation whereon to rest once for all man's
conscience, Thou hast chosen to stir up in him all that is
abnormal, mysterious, and indefinite, all that is beyond human
strength, and has acted as if Thou never hadst any love for him,
and yet Thou wert He who came to "lay down His life for His
friends!" Thou hast burdened man's soul with anxieties hitherto
unknown to him. Thirsting for human love freely given, seeking to
enable man, seduced and charmed by Thee, to follow Thy path of
his own free-will, instead of the old and wise law which held him
in subjection, Thou hast given him the right henceforth to choose
and freely decide what is good and bad for him, guided but by
Thine image in his heart. But hast Thou never dreamt of the
probability, nay, of the certainty, of that same man one day
rejected finally, and controverting even Thine image and Thy
truth, once he would find himself laden with such a terrible
burden as freedom of choice? That a time would surely come when
men would exclaim that Truth and Light cannot be in Thee, for no
one could have left them in a greater perplexity and mental
suffering than Thou has done, lading them with so many cares and
insoluble problems. Thus, it is Thyself who hast laid the
foundation for the destruction of Thine own kingdom and no one
but Thou is to be blamed for it.

"'Meantime, every chance of success was offered Thee. There are
three Powers, three unique Forces upon earth, capable of
conquering for ever by charming the conscience of these weak
rebels--men--for their own good; and these Forces are: Miracle,
Mystery and Authority. Thou hast rejected all the three, and thus
wert the first to set them an example. When the terrible and
all-wise spirit placed Thee on a pinnacle of the temple and said unto
Thee, "If Thou be the son of God, cast Thyself down, for it is
written, He shall give His angels charge concerning Thee: and in
their hands they shall bear Thee up, lest at any time Thou dash
Thy foot against a stone!"--for thus Thy faith in Thy father
should have been made evident, Thou didst refuse to accept his
suggestion and didst not follow it. Oh, undoubtedly, Thou didst
act in this with all the magnificent pride of a god, but then
men--that weak and rebel race--are they also gods, to understand
Thy refusal? Of course, Thou didst well know that by taking one
single step forward, by making the slightest motion to throw
Thyself down, Thou wouldst have tempted "the Lord Thy God," lost
suddenly all faith in Him, and dashed Thyself to atoms against
that same earth which Thou camest to save, and thus wouldst have
allowed the wise spirit which tempted Thee to triumph and
rejoice. But, then, how many such as Thee are to be found on this
globe, I ask Thee? Couldst Thou ever for a moment imagine that
men would have the same strength to resist such a temptation? Is
human nature calculated to reject miracle, and trust, during the
most terrible moments in life, when the most momentous, painful
and perplexing problems struggle within man's soul, to the free
decisions of his heart for the true solution? Oh, Thou knewest
well that that action of Thine would remain recorded in books for
ages to come, reaching to the confines of the globe, and Thy hope
was, that following Thy example, man would remain true to his
God, without needing any miracle to keep his faith alive! But
Thou knewest not, it seems, that no sooner would man reject
miracle than he would reject God likewise, for he seeketh less
God than "a sign" from Him. And thus, as it is beyond the power
of man to remain without miracles, so, rather than live without,
he will create for himself new wonders of his own making; and he
will bow to and worship the soothsayer's miracles, the old
witch's sorcery, were he a rebel, a heretic, and an atheist a
hundred times over. Thy refusal to come down from the cross when
people, mocking and wagging their heads were saying to Thee--"Save
Thyself if Thou be the son of God, and we will believe in
Thee," was due to the same determination--not to enslave man
through miracle, but to obtain faith in Thee freely and apart
from any miraculous influence. Thou thirstest for free and
uninfluenced love, and refuses the passionate adoration of the
slave before a Potency which would have subjected his will once
for ever. Thou judgest of men too highly here, again, for though
rebels they be, they are born slaves and nothing more. Behold,
and judge of them once more, now that fifteen centuries have
elapsed since that moment. Look at them, whom Thou didst try to
elevate unto Thee! I swear man is weaker and lower than Thou hast
ever imagined him to be! Can he ever do that which Thou art said
to have accomplished? By valuing him so highly Thou hast acted as
if there were no love for him in Thine heart, for Thou hast
demanded of him more than he could ever give--Thou, who lovest
him more than Thyself! Hadst Thou esteemed him less, less wouldst
Thou have demanded of him, and that would have been more like
love, for his burden would have been made thereby lighter. Man is
weak and cowardly. What matters it, if he now riots and rebels
throughout the world against our will and power, and prides
himself upon that rebellion? It is but the petty pride and vanity
of a school-boy. It is the rioting of little children, getting up
a mutiny in the class-room and driving their schoolmaster out of
it. But it will not last long, and when the day of their triumph
is over, they will have to pay dearly for it. They will destroy
the temples and raze them to the ground, flooding the earth with
blood. But the foolish children will have to learn some day that,
rebels though they be and riotous from nature, they are too weak
to maintain the spirit of mutiny for any length of time. Suffused
with idiotic tears, they will confess that He who created them
rebellious undoubtedly did so but to mock them. They will
pronounce these words in despair, and such blasphemous utterances
will but add to their misery--for human nature cannot endure
blasphemy, and takes her own revenge in the end.

"'And thus, after all Thou has suffered for mankind and its
freedom, the present fate of men may be summed up in three words:
Unrest, Confusion, Misery! Thy great prophet John records in his
vision, that he saw, during the first resurrection of the chosen
servants of God--"the number of them which were sealed" in their
foreheads, "twelve thousand" of every tribe. But were they,
indeed, as many? Then they must have been gods, not men. They had
shared Thy Cross for long years, suffered scores of years' hunger
and thirst in dreary wildernesses and deserts, feeding upon
locusts and roots--and of these children of free love for Thee,
and self-sacrifice in Thy name, Thou mayest well feel proud. But
remember that these are but a few thousands--of gods, not men;
and how about all others? And why should the weakest be held
guilty for not being able to endure what the strongest have
endured? Why should a soul incapable of containing such terrible
gifts be punished for its weakness? Didst Thou really come to,
and for, the "elect" alone? If so, then the mystery will remain
for ever mysterious to our finite minds. And if a mystery, then
were we right to proclaim it as one, and preach it, teaching them
that neither their freely given love to Thee nor freedom of
conscience were essential, but only that incomprehensible mystery
which they must blindly obey even against the dictates of their
conscience. Thus did we. We corrected and improved Thy teaching
and based it upon "Miracle, Mystery, and Authority." And men
rejoiced at finding themselves led once more like a herd of
cattle, and at  finding their hearts  at last delivered of the
terrible burden laid upon them by Thee, which caused them so much
suffering. Tell me, were we right in doing as we did. Did not we
show our great love for humanity, by realizing in such a humble
spirit its helplessness, by so mercifully lightening its great
burden, and by permitting and remitting for its weak nature every
sin, provided it be committed with our authorization? For what,
then, hast Thou come again to trouble us in our work? And why
lookest Thou at me so penetratingly with Thy meek eyes, and in
such a silence? Rather shouldst Thou feel wroth, for I need not
Thy love, I reject it, and love Thee not, myself. Why should I
conceal the truth from Thee? I know but too well with whom I am
now talking! What I had to say was known to Thee before, I read
it in Thine eye. How should I conceal from Thee our secret? If
perchance Thou wouldst hear it from my own lips, then listen: We
are not with Thee, but with him, and that is our secret! For
centuries have we abandoned Thee to follow him, yes--eight
centuries. Eight hundred years now since we accepted from him the
gift rejected by Thee with indignation; that last gift which he
offered Thee from the high mountain when, showing all the
kingdoms of the world and the glory of them, he saith unto Thee:
"All these things will I give Thee, if Thou will fall down and
worship me!" We took Rome from him and the glaive of Caesar, and
declared ourselves alone the kings of this earth, its sole kings,
though our work is not yet fully accomplished. But who is to
blame for it? Our work is but in its incipient stage, but it is
nevertheless started. We may have long to wait until its
culmination, and mankind have to suffer much, but we shall reach
the goal some day, and become sole Caesars, and then will be the
time to think of universal happiness for men.

"'Thou couldst accept the glaive of Caesar Thyself; why didst
Thou reject the offer? By accepting from the powerful spirit his
third offer Thou would have realized every aspiration man seeketh
for himself on earth; man would have found a constant object for
worship; one to deliver his conscience up to, and one that should
unite all together into one common and harmonious ant-hill; for
an innate necessity for universal union constitutes the third and
final affliction of mankind. Humanity as a whole has ever aspired
to unite itself universally. Many were, the great nations with
great histories, but the greater they were, the more unhappy they
felt, as they felt the stronger necessity of a universal union
among men. Great conquerors, like Timoor and Tchengis-Khan,
passed like a cyclone upon the face of the earth in their efforts
to conquer the universe, but even they, albeit unconsciously,
expressed the same aspiration towards universal and common union.
In accepting the kingdom of the world and Caesar's purple, one
would found a universal kingdom and secure to mankind eternal
peace. And who can rule mankind better than those who have
possessed themselves of man's conscience, and hold in their hand
man's daily bread? Having accepted Caesar's glaive and purple, we
had, of course, but to deny Thee, to henceforth follow him alone.
Oh, centuries of intellectual riot and rebellious free thought
are yet before us, and their science will end by anthropophagy,
for having begun to build their Babylonian tower without our help
they will have to end by anthropophagy. But it is precisely at
that time that the Beast will crawl up to us in full submission,
and lick the soles of our feet, and sprinkle them with tears of
blood and we shall sit upon the scarlet-colored Beast, and
lifting up high the golden cup "full of abomination and
filthiness," shall show written upon it the word "Mystery"! But
it is only then that men will see the beginning of a kingdom of
peace and happiness. Thou art proud of Thine own elect, but Thou
has none other but these elect, and we--we will give rest to
all. But that is not the end. Many are those among thine elect
and the laborers of Thy vineyard, who, tired of waiting for Thy
coming, already have carried and will yet carry, the great fervor
of their hearts and their spiritual strength into another field,
and will end by lifting up against Thee Thine own banner of
freedom. But it is Thyself Thou hast to thank. Under our rule and
sway all will be happy, and will neither rebel nor destroy each
other as they did while under Thy free banner. Oh, we will take
good care to prove to them that they will become absolutely free
only when they have abjured their freedom in our favor and submit
to us absolutely. Thinkest Thou we shall be right or still lying?
They will convince themselves of our rightness, for they will see
what a depth of degrading slavery and strife that liberty of
Thine has led them into. Liberty, Freedom of Thought and
Conscience, and Science will lead them into such impassable
chasms, place them face to face before such wonders and insoluble
mysteries, that some of them--more rebellious and ferocious than
the rest--will destroy themselves; others--rebellious but
weak--will destroy each other; while the remainder, weak, helpless
and miserable, will crawl back to our feet and cry: "'Yes; right
were ye, oh Fathers of Jesus; ye alone are in possession of His
mystery, and we return to you, praying that ye save us from
ourselves!" Receiving their bread from us, they will clearly see
that we take the bread from them, the bread made by their own
hands, but to give it back to them in equal shares and that
without any miracle; and having ascertained that, though we have
not changed stones  into bread, yet bread they have, while every
other bread turned verily in their own hands into stones, they
will be only to glad to have it so. Until that day, they will
never be happy. And who is it that helped the most to blind them,
tell me? Who separated the flock and scattered it over ways
unknown if it be not Thee? But we will gather the sheep once more
and subject them to our will for ever. We will prove to them
their own weakness and make them humble again, whilst with Thee
they have learnt but pride, for Thou hast made more of them than
they ever were worth. We will give them that quiet, humble
happiness, which alone benefits such weak, foolish creatures as
they are, and having once had proved to them their weakness, they
will become timid and obedient, and gather around us as chickens
around their hen. They will wonder at and feel a superstitious
admiration for us, and feel proud to be led by men so powerful
and wise that a handful of them can subject a flock a thousand
millions strong. Gradually men will begin to fear us. They will
nervously dread our slightest anger, their intellects will
weaken, their eyes become as easily accessible to tears as those
of children and women; but we will teach them an easy transition
from grief and tears to laughter, childish joy and mirthful song.
Yes; we will make them work like slaves, but during their
recreation hours they shall have an innocent child-like life,
full of play and merry laughter. We will even permit them sin,
for, weak and helpless, they will feel the more love for us for
permitting them to indulge in it. We will tell them that every
kind of sin will be remitted to them, so long as it is done with
our permission; that we take all these sins upon ourselves, for
we so love the world, that we are even willing to sacrifice our
souls for its satisfaction. And, appearing before them in the
light of their scapegoats and redeemers, we shall be adored the
more for it. They will have no secrets from us. It will rest with
us to permit them to live with their wives and concubines, or to
forbid them, to have children or remain childless, either way
depending on the degree of their obedience to us; and they will
submit most joyfully to us the most agonizing secrets of their
souls--all, all will they lay down at our feet, and we will
authorize and remit them all in Thy name, and they will believe
us and accept our mediation with rapture, as it will deliver them
from their greatest anxiety and torture--that of having to
decide freely for themselves. And all will be happy, all except
the one or two hundred thousands of their rulers. For it is but
we, we the keepers of the great Mystery who will be miserable.
There will be thousands of millions of happy infants, and one
hundred thousand martyrs who have taken upon themselves the curse
of knowledge of good and evil. Peaceable will be their end, and
peacefully will they die, in Thy name, to find behind the portals
of the grave--but death. But we will keep the secret inviolate,
and deceive them for their own good with the mirage of life
eternal in Thy kingdom. For, were there really anything like life
beyond the grave, surely it would never fall to the lot of such
as they! People tell us and prophesy of Thy coming and triumphing
once more on earth; of Thy appearing with the army of Thy elect,
with Thy proud and mighty ones; but we will answer Thee that they
have saved but themselves while we have saved all. We are also
threatened with the great disgrace which awaits the whore,
"Babylon the great, the mother of harlots"--who sits upon the
Beast, holding in her hands the Mystery, the word written upon
her forehead; and we are told that the weak ones, the lambs shall
rebel against her and shall make her desolate and naked. But then
will I arise, and point out to Thee the thousands of millions of
happy infants free from any sin. And we who have taken their sins
upon us, for their own good, shall stand before Thee and say:
"Judge us if Thou canst and darest!" Know then that I fear Thee
not. Know that I too have lived in the dreary wilderness, where I
fed upon locusts and roots, that I too have blessed freedom with
which thou hast blessed men, and that I too have once prepared to
join the ranks of Thy elect, the proud and the mighty. But I
awoke from my delusion and refused since then to serve insanity.
I returned to join the legion of those who corrected Thy
mistakes. I left the proud and returned to the really humble, and
for their own happiness. What I now tell thee will come to pass,
and our kingdom shall be built, I tell Thee not later than
to-morrow Thou shalt see that obedient flock which at one simple
motion of my hand will rush to add burning coals to Thy stake, on
which I will burn Thee for having dared to come and trouble us in
our work. For, if there ever was one who deserved more than any
of the others our inquisitorial fires--it is Thee! To-morrow I
will burn Thee. Dixi'."

Ivan paused. He had entered into the situation and had spoken
with great animation, but now he suddenly burst out laughing.

"But all that is absurd!" suddenly exclaimed Alyosha, who had
hitherto listened perplexed and agitated but in profound silence.
"Your poem is a glorification of Christ, not an accusation, as
you, perhaps, meant to be. And who will believe you when you
speak of 'freedom'? Is it thus that we Christians must understand
it? It is Rome (not all Rome, for that would be unjust), but the
worst of the Roman Catholics, the Inquisitors and Jesuits, that
you have been exposing! Your Inquisitor is an impossible
character. What are these sins they are taking upon themselves?
Who are those keepers of mystery who took upon themselves a curse
for the good of mankind? Who ever met them? We all know the
Jesuits, and no one has a good word to say in their favor; but
when were they as you depict them? Never, never! The Jesuits are
merely a Romish army making ready for their future temporal
kingdom, with a mitred emperor--a Roman high priest at their
head. That is their ideal and object, without any mystery or
elevated suffering. The most prosaic thirsting for power, for the
sake of the mean and earthly pleasures of life, a desire to
enslave their fellow-men, something like our late system of
serfs, with themselves at the head as landed proprietors--that
is all that they can be accused of. They may not believe in God,
that is also possible, but your suffering Inquisitor is simply--a
fancy!"

"Hold, hold!" interrupted Ivan, smiling. "Do not be so excited. A
fancy, you say; be it so! Of course, it is a fancy. But stop. Do
you really imagine that all this Catholic movement during the
last centuries is naught but a desire for power for the mere
purpose of 'mean pleasures'? Is this what your Father Paissiy
taught you?"

"No, no, quite the reverse, for Father Paissiy once told me
something very similar to what you yourself  say, though, of
course, not that--something quite different," suddenly added
Alexis, blushing.

"A precious piece of information, notwithstanding your 'not
that.' I ask you, why should the Inquisitors and the Jesuits of
your imagination live but for the attainment of 'mean material
pleasures?' Why should there not be found among them one single
genuine martyr suffering under a great and holy idea and loving
humanity with all his heart? Now let us suppose that among all
these Jesuits thirsting and hungering but after 'mean material
pleasures' there may be one, just one like my old Inquisitor, who
had himself fed upon roots in the wilderness, suffered the
tortures of damnation while trying to conquer flesh, in order to
become free and perfect, but who had never ceased to love
humanity, and who one day prophetically beheld the truth; who saw
as plain as he could see that the bulk of humanity could never be
happy under the old system, that it was not for them that the
great Idealist had come and died and dreamt of His Universal
Harmony. Having realized that truth, he returned into the world
and joined--intelligent and practical people. Is this so
impossible?"

"Joined whom? What intelligent and practical people?" exclaimed
Alyosha quite excited. "Why should they be more intelligent than
other men, and what secrets and mysteries can they have? They
have neither. Atheism and infidelity is all the secret they have.
Your Inquisitor does not believe in God, and that is all the
Mystery there is in it!"

"It may be so. You have guessed rightly there. And it is so, and
that is his whole secret; but is this not the acutest sufferings
for such a man as he, who killed all his young life in asceticism
in the desert, and yet could not cure himself of his love towards
his fellowmen? Toward the end of his life he becomes convinced
that it is only by following the advice of the great and terrible
spirit that the fate of these millions of weak rebels, these
'half-finished samples of humanity created in mockery' can be
made tolerable.  And once convinced of it, he sees as clearly
that to achieve that object, one must follow blindly the guidance
of the wise spirit, the fearful spirit of death and destruction,
hence accept a system of lies and deception and lead humanity
consciously this time toward death and destruction, and moreover,
be deceiving them all the while in order to prevent them from
realizing where they are being led, and so force the miserable
blind men to feel happy, at least while here on earth. And note
this: a wholesale deception in the name of Him, in whose ideal
the old man had so passionately, so fervently, believed during
nearly his whole life! Is this no suffering? And were such a
solitary exception found amidst, and at the head of, that army
'that thirsts for power but for the sake of the mean pleasures of
life,' think you one such man would not suffice to bring on a
tragedy? Moreover, one single man like my Inquisitor as a
principal leader, would prove sufficient to discover the real
guiding idea of the Romish system with all its armies of Jesuits,
the greatest and chiefest conviction that the solitary type
described in my poem has at no time ever disappeared from among
the chief leaders of that movement. Who knows but that terrible
old man, loving humanity so stubbornly and in such an original
way, exists even in our days in the shape of a whole host of such
solitary exceptions, whose existence is not due to mere chance,
but to a well-defined association born of mutual consent, to a
secret league, organized several centuries back, in order to
guard the Mystery from the indiscreet eyes of the miserable and
weak people, and only in view of their own happiness? And so it
is; it cannot be otherwise. I suspect that even Masons have some
such Mystery underlying the basis of their organization, and that
it is just the reason why the Roman Catholic clergy hate them so,
dreading to find in them rivals, competition, the dismemberment
of the unity of the idea, for the realization of which one flock
and one Shepherd are needed. However, in defending my idea, I
look like an author whose production is unable to stand
criticism. Enough of this."

"You are, perhaps, a Mason yourself!" exclaimed Alyosha. "You do
not believe in God," he added, with a note of profound sadness in
his voice. But suddenly remarking that his brother was looking at
him with mockery, "How do you mean then to bring your poem to a
close?" he unexpectedly enquired, casting his eyes downward, "or
does it break off here?"

"My intention is to end it with the following scene: Having
disburdened his heart, the Inquisitor waits for some time to hear
his prisoner speak in His turn. His silence weighs upon him. He
has seen that his captive has been attentively listening to him
all the time, with His eyes fixed penetratingly and softly on the
face of his jailer, and evidently bent upon not replying to him.
The old man longs to hear His voice, to hear Him reply; better
words of bitterness and scorn than His silence. Suddenly He
rises; slowly and silently approaching the Inquisitor, He bends
towards him and softly kisses the bloodless, four-score
and-ten-year-old lips. That is all the answer. The Grand Inquisitor
shudders. There is a convulsive twitch at the corner of his
mouth. He goes to the door, opens it, and addressing Him, 'Go,'
he says, 'go, and return no more... do not come again... never,
never!' and--lets Him out into the dark night. The prisoner
vanishes."

"And the old man?"

"The kiss burns his heart, but the old man remains firm in his
own ideas and unbelief."

"And you, together with him? You too!" despairingly exclaimed
Alyosha, while Ivan burst into a still louder fit of laughter.