# Albus Dumbledore

Albus Dumbledore  is a fictional character in the  Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. For most of the series, he is the headmaster of the wizarding school Hogwarts. He is one of the most powerful and influential wizards of his time, and is the founder and leader of the Order of the Phoenix, an organisation dedicated to fighting the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort.
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptations of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001) and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002). Following Harris' death in October 2002, Michael Gambon was cast in the role. He plays Dumbledore in six Harry Potter films, which were released from 2004 to 2011. Jude Law portrays a middle-aged version of Dumbledore in the prequel films Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018) and Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore (2022). John Lithgow is set to portray Dumbledore in the upcoming HBO series Harry Potter.

Character
In a 1999 interview, Rowling stated that she imagined Dumbledore as elderly and stately, and compared him to John Gielgud. In the novels, Dumbledore is described as tall and thin, with a long and crooked nose, long fingers and bright blue eyes. His hair and beard are described as long and silver. He wears half-moon spectacles and a colourful array of robes. In 2000, Rowling said that Dumbledore is a hundred and fifty years old during the events of the novels. However, she has stated on her website that he was born in 1881, which makes him either 115 or 116 when he dies in the sixth novel.
Rowling has described Dumbledore as very wise and "the epitome of goodness". She said he is a mentor to Harry Potter, and he knows that Harry will need to learn difficult lessons to prepare him for challenges in his life. According to Rowling, Dumbledore "allows Harry to get into what he would not allow another pupil to do, and he also unwillingly permits Harry to confront things he'd rather protect him from." Dumbledore's demeanour is often described as serene, ethereal and composed, and he rarely displays strong emotions. He is eccentric, slightly effeminate and fond of knitting. He is known for his odd displays of whimsicality, and he often uses humour to put others at ease. His eyes are sometimes described as twinkling with kindness or mischief. Dumbledore is highly perceptive and emotionally intelligent, and has a deep capacity for love. Dumbledore's personality also has a more steely aspect. When he apprehends Barty Crouch Jr in Goblet of Fire, the look upon his face is described as full of "cold fury" and "more terrible than Harry could have ever imagined."
Dumbledore is considered by many characters to be the most powerful wizard alive. Some say he is the only wizard Voldemort ever feared. During his education at Hogwarts, Dumbledore was in Gryffindor House. He was the most brilliant student the school had ever known, winning "every prize of note that the school offered", and doing "things with a wand [the examiner had] never seen before". Rowling has said that Dumbledore is primarily self-taught, although he "had access to superb teachers at Hogwarts". Dumbledore readily acknowledges that he is unusually intelligent and an exceptionally powerful wizard. He is skilled in Occlumency, Legilimency and Transfiguration, and is the owner of the powerful Elder Wand, which is one of the Deathly Hallows.
In spite of Dumbledore's many extraordinary qualities, he is a flawed character. According to Rowling, "Although Dumbledore seems to be so benign for six books, he's quite a Machiavellian figure, really. He's been pulling a lot of strings." In a 2005 interview, Rowling commented: "Immense brainpower does not protect you from emotional mistakes, and I think Dumbledore really exemplifies that." In the novels, Dumbledore admits a number of times to Harry that he makes mistakes, and since he is smarter than most people, his mistakes "tend to be correspondingly huger". Rowling has said that Dumbledore speaks for her, the author, as he knows almost everything about the Harry Potter universe.
Dumbledore describes his desire for power as his greatest flaw. He eventually finds that those best suited for power are those who do not seek it. When he and Grindelwald first meet, they make plans to enslave Muggles and re-establish wizards as the natural rulers of the world. Dumbledore becomes disillusioned with this idea after his sister Ariana is killed during a duel between himself, his brother Aberforth, and Grindelwald. Dumbledore becomes riddled with guilt over the circumstances surrounding the death of his sister. He is tortured for the rest of his life by the possibility that he might have been the one who cast the spell that killed her. When he looks into the Mirror of Erised, he sees himself redeemed in the eyes of his brother and his entire family alive and together.

The name "Dumbledore" is borrowed from a dialectal word for "bumblebee". Rowling chose the name because Dumbledore loves music, and she imagined him walking around and humming to himself frequently.

Appearances in novels

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Dumbledore is introduced in the opening chapter of the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997). Under cover of night, he brings the infant Harry Potter to the home of Harry's uncle and aunt, Vernon and Petunia Dursley. Harry's parents were killed by the Dark wizard Voldemort, and Dumbledore hopes he will be safe with the Dursleys. He leaves Harry on the doorstep with a letter explaining the situation. When Harry arrives at Hogwarts ten years later, Dumbledore tells him about the Mirror of Erised, a magical object that protects the Philosopher's Stone. Dumbledore is summoned to the Ministry of Magic by a false message on the night when Harry, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, and Professor Quirinus Quirrell enter the dungeons to retrieve the Stone. He realises during the trip that he is needed at Hogwarts, and returns in time to rescue Harry from Quirrell and Voldemort.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Dumbledore returns in the second novel, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998). Through a magical diary, Harry sees a younger Dumbledore in a series of flashbacks. The diary once belonged to Tom Riddle, who eventually became Voldemort. In one flashback, Harry sees Dumbledore questioning Riddle about a series of attacks on Muggle-born students. In the present, a basilisk emerges from the Chamber of Secrets and begins attacking people in Hogwarts. Following the attacks, Lucius Malfoy convinces the governors of Hogwarts to suspend Dumbledore from his position as Headmaster. Dumbledore is reinstated when it is revealed that Lucius coerced the governors into suspending him.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
At the beginning of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999), Dumbledore is forced to accept the presence of Dementors at Hogwarts. The Dementors have been sent to protect the students from Sirius Black, a supposed murderer who escaped from the wizard prison Azkaban. When Black breaches Hogwarts, Dumbledore closes every entrance to the school and grounds. After the Dementors cause Harry to fall off his broom during a Quidditch match, Dumbledore becomes angry and uses his wand to help Harry return safely to the ground. Later, Dumbledore suggests that Hermione use her Time-Turner to save Black and Buckbeak the hippogriff from execution.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), Dumbledore brings the Triwizard Tournament to Hogwarts. He also serves as a judge throughout the event. After the final task of the tournament, Harry returns from an encounter with Voldemort. Professor Mad-Eye Moody escorts Harry into the castle, and Dumbledore becomes suspicious. He discovers that Moody is actually Barty Crouch Jr., and that the real Moody is being held prisoner by Crouch. Later, Dumbledore listens to Harry's account of Voldemort's return.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
In the fifth novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003), Dumbledore is removed from his position as Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, voted out of the Chairmanship of the International Confederation of Wizards, and is almost stripped of his Order of Merlin First Class due to his speeches regarding the return of Voldemort. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Magic attempts to discredit him and Harry, often through the Daily Prophet. Dumbledore enrages Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge when he intercedes at a hearing to prevent Harry from being expelled from Hogwarts.
The Ministry passes Educational Decree Twenty-two, which allows Fudge to appoint Dolores Umbridge as the professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts. Through her, Fudge gradually gains power over Hogwarts and Dumbledore, whom he fears is amassing an underage wizard army to overthrow the Ministry. Umbridge forbids students from practicing defensive spells in her class, which prompts Harry, Ron, and Hermione to form a secret practice group called Dumbledore's Army. When the Ministry discovers the group, Dumbledore shields his students from punishment by falsely claiming that it was his idea. He is removed from the position of headmaster for the second time.
When the Order of the Phoenix battles Voldemort's Death Eaters in the Department of Mysteries, Dumbledore arrives to aid them. He subdues most of the Death Eaters and binds them with an Anti-Disapparition Jinx to prevent them from escaping. He then engages in a duel with Voldemort, who tries to possess Harry so Dumbledore will kill him. After this ruse fails, Voldemort is forced to flee with Bellatrix Lestrange. Several Ministry officials witness the end of the battle, which leads to Dumbledore being reinstated as headmaster. Dumbledore explains to Harry that Voldemort chose Harry as his equal, and that either he or Voldemort must eventually kill the other.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005), Dumbledore brings Harry along as he attempts to persuade Horace Slughorn to rejoin the Hogwarts faculty. Harry notices that Dumbledore's right hand is shrivelled and blackened. During the school year, Dumbledore uses the Pensieve to teach Harry about Voldemort's life and his rise to power. In one of the Pensieve visions, Harry witnesses Dumbledore's first encounter with the young Tom Riddle. Dumbledore had known from the beginning that Riddle was dangerous, but believed that Hogwarts would change him.
Dumbledore and Harry learn that Voldemort created six Horcruxes to gain immortality, and that they must be destroyed before Voldemort can be killed. Harry repeatedly warns Dumbledore that Draco Malfoy is an agent of Voldemort, but Dumbledore refuses to take action against Draco. He tells Harry that he already knows more about what is happening than Harry does. Near the end of the novel, Dumbledore and Harry enter a cave in search of a Horcrux. Dumbledore drinks a potion inside the Horcrux's container and begins to scream in agony. When Harry attempts to retrieve some lake water for Dumbledore to drink, he is attacked by Inferi that reside in the lake. They try to drown Harry, but Dumbledore rescues him.
Dumbledore and Harry arrive in the Hogwarts Astronomy Tower with the Horcrux. Dumbledore asks Harry not to interfere in the events that are about to take place, and puts him in a body-binding curse. Immobilized, Harry is unable to intervene as Draco arrives and disarms Dumbledore. Several other Death Eaters then enter the tower and try to persuade Draco to kill Dumbledore. When Draco hesitates, Severus Snape appears and performs the killing curse on the headmaster. His funeral is attended by students, Hogwarts staff, members of the Ministry of Magic and others. He is entombed in a marble sarcophagus beside the Hogwarts lake.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Details of Dumbledore's earlier life are revealed in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007). The novel introduces his parents, Percival and Kendra Dumbledore, and his younger sister, Ariana (his younger brother, Aberforth, is mentioned in previous books). At the age of six, Ariana was attacked by three Muggle boys who witnessed her performing magic. She was deeply traumatised and was never able to control her magic again. Enraged, Percival attacked the boys and was given a life sentence in Azkaban. Kendra subsequently moved the family to the village of Godric's Hollow. Around the time that Albus completed his education, Ariana accidentally killed their mother. Albus became the head of the family and remained in their house with Ariana while Aberforth finished school.
Soon afterward, Dumbledore befriended the young wizard Gellert Grindelwald. They dreamed of uniting the three Deathly Hallows – the Elder Wand, the Resurrection Stone and the Cloak of Invisibility – and creating a world in which wizards rule over Muggles. One day, an argument between Albus, Aberforth, and Grindelwald led to a duel that resulted in Ariana's death. For the rest of his life, Albus felt guilty, never certain whether it was his own curse or another's that killed his sister. He felt he could not be trusted with power and turned down the position of Minister for Magic multiple times, eventually returning to Hogwarts as a professor of Transfiguration. Decades later, Dumbledore faced and defeated Grindelwald, who had become a Dark wizard and had obtained the Elder Wand. Dumbledore now possessed not only the Elder Wand but also the Cloak of Invisibility, which he had borrowed from James Potter before his death. Dumbledore would eventually pass the cloak on to Harry.
The truth about Dumbledore's death is revealed to Harry through Snape's memories in the Pensieve. Harry learns that Dumbledore put on a cursed ring that held the Resurrection Stone, which he hoped would allow him to apologise to his sister and parents. The curse damaged his hand, and Snape told him he would die in about a year. Dumbledore then revealed to Snape that he knew about Draco's attempts to kill him. Since Dumbledore was close to death, he asked Snape to use the killing curse on him. This act of self-sacrifice would prevent Draco's soul from being damaged by committing murder, and would cause Voldemort to trust Snape completely.
Near the end of the novel, Harry is struck by Voldemort's killing curse. He finds himself in an ethereal realm with Dumbledore, who confesses many regrets from earlier in his life. He informs Harry that he can return to his body and face the Dark Lord again. Harry returns, kills Voldemort, then places the Elder Wand in Dumbledore's tomb. In the book's epilogue, it is revealed that Harry named his second son Albus Severus Potter, after Dumbledore and Snape.

Portrayal in other media

Film

In the film adaptations of Philosopher's Stone (2001) and Chamber of Secrets (2002), Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard Harris, who was expected to play the character throughout the entire series. Before Harris was cast, Patrick McGoohan reportedly had an interest in the role, but could not commit due to health issues. Sean Connery was approached, but declined due to the film's subject matter. Harris turned down the role three times but eventually accepted it because his 11-year-old granddaughter threatened to never speak to him again if he did not take it. Harris was determined to portray Dumbledore again in Prisoner of Azkaban (2004), despite having been diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma, and asked David Heyman not to recast the role. However, his death in October 2002 led to recasting.
Christopher Lee was the producers' first choice for replacing Harris. However, Lee's commitments as Saruman in The Lord of the Rings trilogy and Count Dooku in the Star Wars prequels forced him to decline. Ian McKellen was offered the role but turned it down, as he had recently played another wizard character, Gandalf, in The Lord of the Rings. In addition, Harris had called McKellen a "dreadful" actor, and McKellen did not wish to take Harris' role. Harry Robinson, who was a body double for Harris in Chamber of Secrets, was also considered for the part. Harris' family reportedly wanted Peter O'Toole to be cast, but Michael Gambon was ultimately chosen. Gambon adopted a slight Irish accent for the role, which he reprised in all the remaining Harry Potter films.
In flashback scenes in Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2, a young Dumbledore is portrayed by Toby Regbo. In the prequel films Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018) and Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore (2022), Dumbledore is played by Jude Law.

Stage
Dumbledore appears in the play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child (2016), which was written by Jack Thorne from a story by Thorne, J. K. Rowling and John Tiffany. The plot occurs nineteen years after the events of Deathly Hallows, and features time-travel elements.

Television
Dumbledore is set to be portrayed by John Lithgow in Harry Potter, an upcoming HBO television series based on the Harry Potter novels.

Reception
Albus Dumbledore has been compared to other archetypal "wise old man" characters. As writer Evelyn Perry noted, "Dumbledore resembles Merlin both personally and physically; he is an avid lover of books and wisdom who wears flowing robes and a long, white beard." Dumbledore has also been compared to Gandalf from J. R. R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings. Dave Kopel has drawn comparisons between Rowling's writing and John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress, and has asserted that Dumbledore acts like "the bearded God the Father" figure in which Harry puts his faith to be saved from Voldemort and his servants. The entertainment website IGN claimed that Dumbledore has "taken his place among the great mentor figures in literature and film". After Michael Gambon took over the role of Dumbledore in the film series, he received criticism for his louder, more aggressive, portrayal of the character compared to Richard Harris' version. Kat Rosenfield of MTV attributed Gambon's portrayal to his policy of not reading the source material from which his films are adapted.
In an interview on the DVD of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002), the film's screenwriter Steve Kloves said that the character Dumbledore carries the future of the wizarding world, and he uses humour and whimsy to cope with the heaviness of this burden.

Sexual orientation
In October 2007, while answering questions during a book reading at Carnegie Hall, Rowling was asked if Dumbledore had ever been in love. She replied that she always thought of Dumbledore as being homosexual. She discussed for the first time his romantic relationship with his rival Gellert Grindelwald, describing it as a tragedy; she did not explicitly state whether Grindelwald returned Dumbledore's affections. She explained that Dumbledore lost his moral compass when he fell in love, which led him to become interested for a brief time in wizard domination over Muggles. Rowling added that Dumbledore subsequently did not trust his own moral judgment, and became asexual and celibate.
During production of the 2009 film Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Rowling informed director David Yates of Dumbledore's sexuality by writing a note in the screenplay. She crossed out a section where Dumbledore describes his attraction to a woman, and wrote "Dumbledore is gay." When Yates learned about Dumbledore's sexuality, he recalled thinking it was "pretty cool". Michael Gambon, who portrays Dumbledore in six of the eight Harry Potter films, was reportedly amused by the revelation. Daniel Radcliffe, who plays Harry in the film series, found the news "hilarious".
The revelation of Dumbledore's sexuality occurred after the publication of the final novel, and made international news. Some gay rights activists and organizations praised Rowling, while others wished she had gone further to promote acceptance of homosexuality. A spokesman for the advocacy group Stonewall applauded the revelation, saying "It's great that JK has said this. It shows that there's no limit to what gay and lesbian people can do, even being a wizard headmaster." The gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell welcomed the news about Dumbledore, but was disappointed that Rowling did not mention his sexuality in the novels. In an editorial for The Guardian, the journalist James Ball wrote that depicting "the respected, heroic and beloved Albus Dumbledore as [a] fully realised gay character—whose sexuality was merely incidental to his achievements—would have provided a fictional role model like no other. With homophobic bullying still such a significant issue in schools, this is a missed opportunity". Writing for Time, John Cloud argued that Dumbledore's silence about his sexuality implies that he is ashamed of it. Cloud claimed this silence "suggests a lack of personal integrity that is completely out of character".
Melissa Anelli, the webmaster of the fan site The Leaky Cauldron, praised the revelation, saying it promoted tolerance towards homosexuality. She added, "By dubbing someone so respected, so talented and so kind, as someone who just happens to be also homosexual, [Rowling is] reinforcing the idea that a person's gayness is not something of which they should be ashamed." Mark Harris of Entertainment Weekly said Rowling's choice "to make a beloved professor-mentor gay in a world where gay teachers are still routinely slandered as malign influences was, I am certain, no accident." Mike Thomas of the Orlando Sentinel claimed that Rowling displayed great skill by writing a gay character without labelling him as gay.
In a 2016 article, Aja Romano of Vox observed a critical stance among many Harry Potter fans towards Rowling's revelation. Romano asserted that because Dumbledore's homosexuality was revealed after his death, certain fans felt that Rowling contributed to a "longstanding, problematic 'dead gays' trope" instead of showing the headmaster "living out his queer identity". After the release of the film Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018), Delia Harrington of Den of Geek criticised the film's failure to mention Dumbledore's homosexuality. She claimed that Rowling, who wrote the screenplay, put Dumbledore back in "the closet". In a 2019 opinion piece in The Washington Post, Richard Morgan also expressed frustration that the headmaster is not portrayed as gay in the film. Matt Collette, the producer of the LGBT+ podcast Nancy, called Rowling a "queerbaiter", which he defined as "a writer who puts in just enough of a queer story line to appease the fans who'd like one, but not so much as to offend anyone who doesn't like gay people."
Edward Rothstein of The New York Times questioned whether Dumbledore's sexuality should be considered canon. He said that "Rowling may think of Dumbledore as gay" but "there is no reason why anyone else should". The student newspaper of East Tennessee State University accused Rowling of lying, claiming her revelation was a publicity stunt. Other critics quoted the Death of the Author principle; they claimed that Rowling's commentary about characters after the novels were published is irrelevant to an understanding of the books.
In Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore (2022), Dumbledore mentions that he was in love with Grindelwald, and tells other characters about their romantic relationship. After these lines were cut from the film's Chinese release, the filmmakers faced additional criticism from fans.


================================================================================

# Bellatrix Lestrange

Bellatrix Lestrange is a fictional character in the Harry Potter novels by J. K. Rowling. She evolved from an unnamed peripheral character in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire into an antagonist in subsequent novels. In the final novel, Rowling established her as Lord Voldemort's "last, best lieutenant". Bellatrix had a fanatical obsession with the Dark Lord, though she feared his magical abilities and absolute power over his forces. She is sadistic and homicidal, with a psychotic personality.
She is played by Helena Bonham Carter in the last four Harry Potter films, from Order of the Phoenix (2007) to Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2011).

Name
Her given name comes from Latin as the feminine form of the noun "warrior". Like many members of the Black family, Bellatrix is named after a celestial body or astronomic structure, in this case one of the brightest stars in the constellation Orion.
Bellatrix's name has been translated into other languages in various ways. Many of the changes accentuate her evil nature, such as the Dutch "Bellatrix van Detta".

Character background
Bellatrix has two younger sisters, Andromeda and Narcissa, and is a first cousin of Sirius Black. She married Rodolphus Lestrange after leaving Hogwarts "because it was expected of her" to marry a pure-blood. However, Rowling stated in an interview that Bellatrix truly loved Voldemort. Andromeda married a Muggle-born, Ted Tonks, and was subsequently disowned by the Blacks, whereas Narcissa, conversely, married Lucius Malfoy, heir of a wealthy pure-blood family; thus, Bellatrix is the aunt of both Nymphadora Tonks and Draco Malfoy.
At Hogwarts, she, along with her sisters, was sorted into Slytherin. It is suggested in the novels that, as a student, Bellatrix associated with a group of students – including Rodolphus Lestrange, Severus Snape, Avery, Evan Rosier and Wilkes – who nearly all became Death Eaters. It is assumed Bellatrix was at least initially drawn to Lord Voldemort because they both believe in an ideology that favors pure-blood wizards over other wizards. This elitism, shared by the Malfoy and Lestrange clans, was instilled in Bellatrix since childhood. The Black family motto, toujours pur (French for "always pure"), reflects this steadfast belief in blood purity. Bellatrix and her husband were active Death Eaters during Voldemort's rise to power, and evaded capture and suspicion until after his downfall.

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Said book uses Albus Dumbledore's Pensieve as a plot device to reveal that Bellatrix (although she is not called by name), rather than deserting her leader like many other Death Eaters, was part of the group of dark wizards – along with Rodolphus, Rabastan, and Barty Crouch Jr – that tortured well-known aurors Frank and Alice Longbottom to try to gain information about Voldemort's location. For using the Unforgivable Cruciatus Curse to torture the Longbottoms until they went insane, Bellatrix and her three associates were sentenced to life imprisonment in Azkaban. At her trial, Bellatrix proudly and defiantly proclaimed that Voldemort would rise again. Later in that book, during his rebirthing ritual, Voldemort stated that the Lestranges were amongst the most faithful members of his inner circle.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Thirteen years after Voldemort's fall, Bellatrix was one of many Death Eaters who escaped Azkaban and rejoined him. After escaping, she was at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries in the climax of the book, in which a group of Death Eaters tried to steal Sybill Trelawney's prophecy about Voldemort's downfall. Neville Longbottom attempts to kill Bellatrix, who is with Lucius and other Death Eaters to confront Harry. Rowling let Bellatrix prove her magical prowess during the mission when she overpowered her niece Tonks and Kingsley Shacklebolt in one-on-one duels, killed her cousin Sirius by blasting him through a veil in the Death Chamber, and deflected one of Dumbledore's spells as she made her escape. Harry tried to use the Cruciatus Curse on her in revenge for killing Sirius, but the curse was ineffective due to the lack of real cruelty behind it. Before she could do any more, Bellatrix was joined by her master, who ignored her warning that Dumbledore was in the building. Bellatrix was subdued by Dumbledore in the Ministry of Magic's Atrium while he duelled Voldemort. Voldemort interceded on Bellatrix's behalf, grabbing her and taking her with him as he Disapparated, though not before being glimpsed by Ministry officials.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
At the beginning of Half-Blood Prince, Bellatrix tries to keep Narcissa from confiding Draco's secret mission to Snape at Spinner's End. Rowling used the conversation between Snape and Bellatrix to imply that Voldemort is still furious at Bellatrix's failure in the previous book. That conversation also suggests that Bellatrix mistrusts Snape not only because of his low birth, but also for many valid questions about his loyalty to the Dark Lord. Snape surprises Bellatrix by replying to each of her arguments and by agreeing to create an Unbreakable Vow with Narcissa to assist Draco in his mission to kill Dumbledore. Later in the book, it is mentioned by Snape that Bellatrix had been teaching Occlumency to Draco, in an effort to aid him with his mission. In the film, she and Fenrir Greyback arrive at the Burrow, the Weasleys' home, and burn it down. Ginny Weasley and Harry chase after them, with Bellatrix taunting them over her murder of Sirius.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Chapter 1 of Deathly Hallows implies that Voldemort is still angry with Bellatrix, as evidenced when he makes fun of the fact that her niece Tonks married werewolf Remus Lupin. However, Voldemort gives Bellatrix a chance to "prune" her family tree during the Death Eaters' attempt to capture Harry as the boy leaves the Dursleys' home, during which Bellatrix unsuccessfully tries to kill Tonks. Said book reveals that Bellatrix is the guardian of Helga Hufflepuff's cup (though she is unaware that it is a Horcrux), which Voldemort has entrusted the Lestranges to keep in their Gringotts vault. Bellatrix and the Malfoys detain Harry, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger at Malfoy Manor; and Hermione is tortured by Bellatrix when she suspects the trio has broken into her vault; but Dobby appears and saves the prisoners, though not before being hit by a knife thrown by Bellatrix as they disapparate to safety. Later in the book, Harry, Ron, and Hermione use a stray hair of Bellatrix's to disguise Hermione as Bellatrix using Polyjuice Potion, to gain access to the Lestrange's Gringotts vault. Though Voldemort apparently punishes Bellatrix and the Malfoys severely for interrupting his Elder Wand side quest only to have Potter escape and steal the cup, she nevertheless fights for her master in the Battle of Hogwarts towards the end of the novel. When the battle resumes inside the Great Hall after Harry's supposed death, Bellatrix simultaneously duels with Hermione, Ginny, and Luna Lovegood, none of whom is a match for Bellatrix, who nearly hits Ginny with a Killing Curse. An enraged Molly Weasley engages Bellatrix in a duel and fires a curse that hits Bellatrix right over the heart, killing her. Rowling revealed that, though there was speculation that Neville would kill Bellatrix, she had always intended Molly to do so because the author wanted to match Bellatrix's obsessive love with Molly's maternal love.

Appearances in other media
The play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, which happens over 19 years after The Deathly Hallows, reveals that Bellatrix is the mother of Delphini (Delphi for short), the play's female antagonist. Bellatrix conceived Delphi with Voldemort during their stay at Malfoy Manor prior to the Battle of Hogwarts.

Production
Actress Helen McCrory was originally cast as Bellatrix in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix but dropped out due to pregnancy and was replaced with Helena Bonham Carter. McCrory was later cast as Bellatrix's sister Narcissa in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, during the filming of which Bonham Carter learned that she was pregnant. Elizabeth Hurley was also reportedly linked to the role of Bellatrix at one point. While filming the scene in the Department of Mysteries in Order of the Phoenix, Bonham Carter accidentally perforated the eardrum of Matthew Lewis, the actor who portrays Neville Longbottom, with her wand during one of the outtakes, when she became a bit too enthusiastic in her portrayal.

Reception

Helena Bonham Carter's performance as Bellatrix throughout the film series has been widely praised.


================================================================================

# Blaise Zabini

Blaise Zabini is a character in J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter series. A minor character, his gender was not revealed until Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, which resulted in several fans initially believing him to be female and errors in the series' Dutch and Croatian translations. Despite this, he is more popular in fan-fiction of the series, partially due to his status as one of the few characters in Harry Potter of African descent. He was 17 in the Half-Blood Prince book.

Appearances
Blaise is one of the "few black students at Hogwarts." He was initially mentioned as the last student to have been sorted by the Sorting Hat, which placed him in Slytherin. In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, he is described as "a tall black boy with high cheekbones and long, slanting eyes". His mother is described as a "famously beautiful" witch who had "married seven times", with all of them ending in mysterious fatalities that left her significantly wealthier.
He is portrayed as snobbish and with "exceptional good looks". In one of the few lines he has, he calls Ginny Weasley "blood traitor", a derogatory term used by "pure-blood" wizards against other pure-bloods who choose to associate with "muggles" or "muggle-borns". Due to the gender-neutral nature of his name and the lack of a description of him in the earlier novels, Dutch translations of the first novels in the series referred to him as female. This was corrected in the translation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince when his gender was revealed.
In the film adaptations of the novels, Blaise is portrayed by Louis Cordice. The character replaced Josh Herdman's role of Gregory Goyle in the Battle of Hogwarts in the second part of the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows so the role Herdman did have as Goyle would replace Vincent Crabbe, whose actor Jamie Waylett had been arrested for being in possession of cannabis and a knife.

Reception
As he was only mentioned once in the first book with no other descriptors, he was the "subject of rampant speculation, shipping, and fan art." Fan fiction written prior to the publishing of the sixth book typically depicted him as a "ghostly pale white male." Keidra Chaney and Raizel Liebler argue that this largely arose from writer Cassandra Clare's depiction of Blaise in her Harry Potter fan-fiction work The Draco Trilogy. According to Maria I Velazquez, following the reveal of his race, some fans of the series reacted with "frustration, grief, and anger at Rowling for "shatter[ing]" their image of Blaise by making him black." She quoted a blogger who argued that this exemplified the "ways in which racism and stereotypes frame the ways in which one reads a text", and that "whiteness becomes a kind of default, so characters are often assumed to be white unless the text explicitly states otherwise." Velazquez, notes that his race is "still an ongoing tension" within the fandom. She writes that "anti-black sentiments" towards the casting of Zabini in the films "became an opportunity for antiracist fans to engage in an extended, ongoing critique of real-world racism(s) in both fandom and the series itself." Chaney and Liebler note that some fan-fiction works continued to depict Blaise as "white" and a "goth". However, they did not understand why those fans believed that Blaise "could not continue to be gothy while being African-British", and posited that they were either "slightly racist" or that as a character of African descent, to them, he no longer fit into the "Goth identity." There were also disputes between fans regarding his gender.
The character is significantly more prominently featured in fan fiction than in the original series. As of 2018, there were 6,000 pieces of fan-fiction on FanFiction.Net and another 6,000 on Archive of Our Own featuring him as the main character, with many more featuring him as a major character. Judith Brottrager, Joël Doat, Julian Häußler and Thomas Weitin write that he is a "fan favorite" despite him "scarcely" having a presence in the source material. They attributed this to fan fiction authors' "desire for completion", with the characters and settings of the houses of Hogwarts other than Gryffindor, being "mostly unexplored" in the original novels. They further write that the "mere quantitative rise in the occurrences of his character name is also connected to an increased intensity of connections to other characters" and that he is a "prime example for a fanfiction shift." They argue that his status as one of the few "POCs" from the original novels and as a "flat character", with his background and identity being "not overly explored or spelled out", makes him more attractive to fan fiction authors. The further note that while he may act as a 'tabula rasa' for fan fiction authors, the few characteristics of his that are depicted are a "useful shorthand for a character type in fanfictions."
Taylor Pernini argues that Blaise's "position as both a character of color and an espouser of blood supremacist ideals places the audience in an uncomfortable space", giving him the "potential to be an incredibly complex and even inscrutable character". However, Rowling does "almost nothing" with the character, providing the "barest glimpse of a character who could present a variety of complicated issues of identity and ‘otherness’ within discriminatory groups", even though he remains nearly "nonexistent in the text." He occupies a "difficult space" within the source material, which "does very little to address that difficulty". Pernini argues that it is for this reason that Blaise "possesses the largest discrepancy" between his prominence in the source material and in fan-fiction. She writes that fan-fiction is the "only way" for fans to deal with the "complete and utter lack of attention to a character of color in such an unexpected position", which is seen by them as a "tragic failure". Pernini notes that fan works range from depicting him as a "total and unrepentant Death Eater-sympathizer" to being "forced to espouse those beliefs for his own life and the lives of others" to a "cunning man who refuses to pick a side and remains neutral." Some pieces of fan-fiction depict him eventually changing his views with regard to blood supremacy. She concludes: "To a large degree, Blaise Zabini remains a huge question mark in the source text, and the only way to handle that is to try to provide some kind of answers in a new story."
Vilma Vuorinen notes that his mother is potentially the only other Black woman in the series apart from Angelina Johnson, a Hogwarts student, and that she "serves no other purpose in the story other than to be perceived as a Jezebel" and is "completely devoid of agency outside her nature as a temptress."
The character is the subject of the 2007 song Who is Blaise Zabini? by wizard rock band The Parselmouths. The song describes how both he and his peers were initially unable to perceive him clearly. In the song, his peers attempt to determine his gender by observing the dormitory in which he resides, but this fails as he "just kind of disappears", with Blaise himself "confunded" of his own gender identity, unsure of which restroom to use. Once he is described, his peers are able to properly perceive him and he is then "secure in being a boy". Anne Collins Smith writes that through the line "he would have been a nice girl as well", the song "emphasizes his earlier gender indeterminacy as a potentiality that could have gone in either direction", and that it "may also be interpreted as an olive branch offered to fans who had previously imagined the character as female and were disappointed to have their version deauthorized." Smith argues that the band "ordinarily stick fairly close" to the original perspective of the source material while giving him a "readerlike stance so that he too perceives himself as undefined until the original author (J. K. Rowling) provides him with a more distinctive description." Smith notes that while the song appears to reference the conflict regarding Blaise's gender, the line "we knew that he was cool" suggests a "desire to maintain a positive standpoint on the character."


================================================================================

# Death Eater

The Death Eaters are a fictional extremist organisation from the Harry Potter series, led by the dark wizard Lord Voldemort. They follow a strict belief in blood purity, thinking that only pure-blood wizards should have power over the wizarding world. Because of this, they feel it is their duty to eliminate wizards born to non-magical families to keep their bloodline pure.
The Death Eaters have a symbol called the Dark Mark, which is a skull with a snake coming out of its mouth. This mark is branded on their left arm and can be used by Voldemort to summon them at any time. The mark burns to signal the call of Voldemort. The Death Eaters also cast the mark into the sky to signify they had killed someone. It also helps them recognise each other. To hide their identities, Death Eaters usually wear black hooded robes and masks.
In the timeline of the Harry Potter series, the Death Eaters were formed as Voldemort's army during the First Wizarding War. During this time, their activities focused on fighting against the Ministry of Magic and the Order of the Phoenix, the two main opposing groups. They used attacks and threats against their enemies and their families to create fear and weaken their resistance.
The Death Eaters were first introduced as a group in the novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000). However, individual members such as Severus Snape, Lucius Malfoy, and Peter Pettigrew appeared in earlier books. The name of the group is only mentioned from the fourth book onward, but Voldemort’s followers are talked about in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. The term "Death Eaters" is directly mentioned for the first time in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.

Concept
According to J.K. Rowling's speech at the 2007  Carnegie Hall event, the Death Eaters' beliefs are similar to the extremist ideas of the Nazi party. This is seen as a way to criticise racism and totalitarianism.

Synopsis

Pre-Harry Potter
The Death Eaters first existed over 11 years before the events of the Harry Potter novels, torturing and murdering Muggles (non-magical people), as well as anyone who opposed them. When a deadly curse from Voldemort rebounded off Harry Potter and disembodied Voldemort, the Death Eaters largely disbanded and vanished.

Re-emergence
Early in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, a group of Death Eaters gathers at the Quidditch World Cup and spread chaos and fear amongst the wizarding community. Voldemort regains his full strength at the end of Goblet of Fire, and summons his followers to him.
The Minister for Magic, Cornelius Fudge, deludes himself into believing that Voldemort could not have come back and that it was all a lie cooked up by Dumbledore, who Fudge believes had designs on his political office. The Death Eaters use this tactical advantage throughout Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix to maintain their secrecy. Because of the Ministry's refusal to remove the Dementors from Azkaban (as Dumbledore advises immediately following Voldemort's return), the Death Eaters recruit the Dementors to their cause and make similar progress with the giants; the Dementors' revolt against the Ministry of Magic also allows the Death Eaters to bolster their ranks with the mass break-out of several imprisoned Death Eaters, including Bellatrix Lestrange.
Towards the end of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, the Death Eaters attack Hogwarts for the first time, leading to the death of Albus Dumbledore and injuries to several of the school's defenders.  A second, more deadly attack near the conclusion of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows results in over 50 deaths, including that of Voldemort, who dies when the Killing Curse he casts at Harry rebounds on him. All the Dark Marks on the remaining Death Eaters fade to scars.

Ideology
Voldemort's Death Eaters practise illegal and dangerous spells known as dark magic. They follow a racist ideology that places pure-blooded wizards at the top of a racial hierarchy, above all other magical or non-magical people and entities. They believe wizards are, as a genealogy book within the story phrases it, "Nature's Nobility"; other magical creatures and the non-magical are inferior and should be subjugated. Within the wizarding community, only those who are born to wizard parents are worthy of magical power, despite the fact that parentage does not in fact determine who possesses such powers. They categorise wizards according to blood purity; "pure-bloods" (those with only wizards as parents) out-rank "half-bloods" (mixed parentage) and "mudbloods", a derogatory name for those born to non-magical parents (Muggles). Death Eaters have also attacked pure-bloods who oppose them. Examples of this are pure-blooded members of the Order of the Phoenix such as Sirius Black, the Prewett brothers, who were murdered because of their loyalties, and the entire Weasley family. Such people are often called "blood traitors" by those who subscribe to Death Eater ideologies.
In reality, the idea of blood purity is a misnomer – Voldemort himself is a half-blood – and it is unlikely that all of them could be pure-bloods, as very few, if any, such people could exist given the small gene pool. In Half-Blood Prince, Rowling depicts the Gaunts as a family who are obsessed with their ancestry and driven to inbreeding to preserve its integrity. Rowling has stated on her website that there are no true pure-blood families left but that those who call themselves such simply strike Muggles, Squibs, and half-bloods from their family records. On the other hand, "in rare circumstances" a Muggle-born wizard can become a Death Eater. They are also not above recruiting creatures they deem inferior, as proven by werewolf Fenrir Greyback and the giant clan from continental Europe, as long as they help further the larger Death Eater agenda.
The Death Eaters seek complete power and control over the entire Wizarding world, wishing to restrict leadership to a small band of pure-bloods. The Death Eaters not only seek the restoration of pure-blood rule over the Wizarding community, but also the eventual subjugation of the Muggle community under Wizarding rule.  During their control over the Ministry of Magic, they severely persecuted Muggle-born wizards, sending them to Azkaban for life or feeding them to Dementors.

Notable Death Eater characters

Alecto and Amycus Carrow
Alecto and Amycus Carrow are siblings who participate in the assault on Hogwarts at the end of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. Amycus is described as being squat and lumpy, with a lopsided leer and a wheezy giggle; Alecto is described as a "stocky little woman" and shares her brother's squatness and laugh.
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Alecto and Amycus become "teachers" at Hogwarts, severely disciplining students who oppose Voldemort. Amycus teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts, but as Neville Longbottom puts it, it becomes just "The Dark Arts" in which students are forced to perform the Cruciatus Curse against students who have been assigned to detention. Alecto teaches Muggle Studies, which becomes a compulsory subject, and teaches students that Muggles are like animals.
Ralph Ineson plays Amycus, and Suzie Toase appears as Alecto in the films.

Barty Crouch Jr
Bartemius "Barty" Crouch, Junior was captured by the Ministry of Magic along with Bellatrix, Rodolphus, and Rabastan Lestrange soon after the initial fall of Voldemort and torturing Neville's parents with the Cruciatus Curse. His father, Bartemius Crouch, who headed the Department of Magical Law Enforcement at the time, sentenced him to life imprisonment in Azkaban after being exposed by Igor Karkaroff. However, Barty Crouch Jr. eventually escaped the prison with the help of his father, who placed him under house arrest via the Imperius Curse.
Barty Crouch Jr attended the 1994 Quidditch World Cup under an Invisibility Cloak. During the attack on the tournament by other Death Eaters, he overcame the influence of his father's Imperius Curse, stole Harry Potter's wand, and cast the Dark Mark in the sky. He was not discovered, but was taken back home by his father and placed under the Imperius Curse again. Soon thereafter, he was freed from his house arrest by Lord Voldemort, who placed Crouch Sr under the Imperius Curse instead.
Crouch Jr later subdued and imprisoned Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, a famous Auror, and used Polyjuice Potion to assume Moody's appearance and infiltrate Hogwarts as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, thus demonstrating the unforgivable curses.
The revived Triwizard Tournament is held at Hogwarts, and Voldemort tasks Crouch Jr with ensuring Harry's victory. To do this, he puts Harry's name in the Goblet of Fire, bewitches Viktor Krum with the Imperius Curse to attack Cedric Diggory in the maze, and stuns Fleur Delacour. When Harry and Cedric simultaneously touch the Triwizard Cup, which is a Portkey, it transports them to the graveyard in Little Hangleton, home of the Riddle family. There, after killing Cedric, Death Eater Peter Pettigrew uses Harry's blood in a ritual that returns Voldemort to a physical body and summon Lucius and the Death Eaters. Voldemort attempts to kill Harry, but with the help of the ghost-echoes of Voldemort's previous victims, Harry escapes via the Portkey with Cedric's body.
When Harry reappears at Hogwarts, the still-disguised Crouch Jr hopes to succeed where his master failed and kill Harry; however, Dumbledore, Snape, and McGonagall foil his plot. Under the effects of Veritaserum, he recounts his plan to them. Although he is closely guarded so he can later repeat his testimony, a Dementor acting as bodyguard to Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge attacks Crouch and sucks out his soul before anyone can stop it. Crouch lives from then on in a vegetative state, bereft of his memories or sense of self.
He is played by David Tennant in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.

Antonin Dolohov
Antonin Dolohov has a long, pale, and twisted face. He is confirmed in Half-Blood Prince to be one of Voldemort's first Death Eaters. Dolohov is one of the five Death Eaters who murder Gideon and Fabian Prewett (Molly Weasley's brothers). Dolohov is imprisoned in Azkaban but escapes during the mass break-out of 1996.
He participates in the battle of the Department of Mysteries, where he injures Hermione, but is imprisoned again and returns to Azkaban. He escapes once more some time before the events of Deathly Hallows. Dolohov later participates in the Battle of Hogwarts, killing Remus Lupin. Professor Flitwick finally defeats him. He is portrayed by Arben Bajraktaraj in the film adaptations of Order of the Phoenix and Deathly Hallows – Part 1.

Igor Karkaroff
Igor Karkaroff (Cyrillic: Игор Каркаров) is the Headmaster at Durmstrang Institute, one of the three schools (together with Hogwarts and Beauxbatons Academy) that enter the Triwizard Tournament. As Headmaster, Karkaroff is also one of the judges. He is described as a neat, fussy-looking man with an oily voice and manner who sports a small grey goatee. While unctuously pleasant most of the time, he is capable of violent rage. He is also described as "a man with yellowish teeth whose smile does not reach his cold stare". Before, he was a Death Eater and a prisoner from Azkaban. There he was interrogated by Barty Crouch Sr and gives false names, including Snape. Karkaroff then exposes Barty Crouch Jr for using the Cruciatus Curse on Neville's parents. He was likely sent back to Azkaban or released for giving away a Death Eater's name. Karkaroff is angered and threatens to withdraw from the tournament when Harry is selected as a fourth champion and second representative for Hogwarts. Although he is talked down and agrees to stay, he nevertheless shows evident favouritism towards the Durmstrang champion, Bulgarian Quidditch player Viktor Krum.
Sirius Black later identifies Karkaroff as a former Death Eater.
In the sixth novel, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Remus Lupin states that Karkaroff was found dead in a shack with the Dark Mark hovering over it, an indication that he was killed by other Death Eaters.
Predrag Bjelac appeared as Karkaroff in the film adaptation of Goblet of Fire.

Bellatrix Lestrange

Bellatrix Lestrange is the aunt of Draco Malfoy and Nymphadora Tonks. She is introduced in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. She is the most faithful member of Voldemort's inner circle. She is described as being highly attractive yet emaciated due to her time in Azkaban, for which she was sentenced for the torture and permanent incapacitation of Neville Longbottom's parents. She escaped Azkaban and reunites with Voldemort. With Lucius, she kills Sirius Black with the Killing Curse. Then she forces Draco to kill Dumbledore. She then meets with Harry, Hermione and Ron after the Death Eaters captured them. After they escaped, Dobby is seen stabbed by Bellatrix's dagger for betraying Lucius. Bellatrix is later slaughtered by Molly Weasley after attempting to kill Ginny Weasley. Bellatrix is portrayed as paranoid, insane, sadistic, and fanatically devoted to Voldemort, seeing service to him as the noblest duty for any true wizard or witch.

Draco Malfoy

Draco Malfoy is the pure-blooded son of Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy. He was a notorious bully to Harry Potter and his friends throughout the series. Draco becomes a Death Eater in his sixth year at Hogwarts and is assigned to kill Dumbledore. However, he fails and Dumbledore is ultimately killed by Snape. Draco, like his family, is part of Slytherin house. Draco repaired a vanishing cabinet to let the Death Eaters in from the inside.
In the Cursed Child, Malfoy was married to Astoria Greengrass, and has a child named Scorpius, one of the two main protagonists in the eighth Harry Potter book, and best friends with Albus Severus Potter.
He is portrayed by Tom Felton in all of the films and by Tom Stephens in the Cursed Child.

Lucius Malfoy
Lucius Malfoy is the head of a wealthy pure-blood wizarding family. He lives with his wife Narcissa Malfoy and their son Draco at Malfoy Manor in Wiltshire. Lucius was a school governor of Hogwarts before being sacked, and has very close connections at the Ministry of Magic. He was educated at Hogwarts, where he was a prefect in Slytherin House.
He first appears near the beginning of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, when he plants Tom Riddle's diary in Ginny Weasley's cauldron while she is shopping for school supplies, which is part of a plot to open the Chamber of Secrets and cause harm to Muggle-born students.
Lucius knows the diary is cleverly enchanted, but is not aware that it is a horcrux containing a part of Voldemort's soul. He is careless with it and punished by Voldemort himself. Lucius intends to use the opening of the Chamber of Secrets by Ginny to discredit her father, Arthur Weasley, and Dumbledore. Lucius' plans are ultimately thwarted with the help of the Malfoys' house-elf Dobby, and Harry, but not before the Chamber is opened and Lucius uses the ensuing terror to influence the school's Board of Governors to discredit and dismiss Dumbledore as Headmaster.
After the basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets is killed, Dumbledore is reinstated as Headmaster. Lucius, whose part in the scheme to remove Dumbledore is exposed, is ultimately stripped of his title as a Hogwarts school governor. Harry gives Voldemort's diary to Malfoy wrapped in a sock and Lucius denies ownership, but throws the sock away, which Dobby catches. A gift of clothing ending a house-elf’s servitude, Dobby proclaims himself free which angers Lucius. He attempts to attack Harry with a curse, but Dobby repels him and Lucius threatens Harry about the latter's parents.
In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Lucius and Draco spectate the Quidditch World Cup, whilst confronting Harry, Hermione, the Weasleys and Cedric Diggory. When Voldemort rises again with Cedric Diggory's death and summons his Death Eaters, Malfoy rejoins him and asserts that he had done everything he could to help his master, who however remains unimpressed. He watches Voldemort's duel with Harry but soon Harry escapes with Cedric's body away from Voldemort. Harry reports Malfoy's declarations to Minister Fudge, who refuses to believe him.
During the climax of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Malfoy is the leader of the Death Eaters who are sent to retrieve the prophecy from Harry in the Hall of Prophecy. Lucius tries several ways to get the prophecy from Harry without breaking it, but the boy and his friends manage to escape from the Hall. Malfoy finally meets him in the Death Chamber, where Harry is about to give it to Malfoy when the Order of the Phoenix breaks into the Ministry and begins to duel with the Death Eaters. Lucius and another Death Eater duels Sirius Black and Harry and Lucius is knocked away by Sirius before Bellatrix casts the Killing Curse on Sirius. Dumbledore himself arrives at the end of the battle and Malfoy is captured and sent to Azkaban.
By the final book, Voldemort has given Malfoy his freedom, but he has lost Voldemort's favour. Voldemort treats him with great contempt by hijacking his house for headquarters, and is forcing his son to do dark deeds against his nature. Voldemort borrows Lucius's wand, which is accidentally destroyed by Harry Potter. Later in the book, Lucius, along with his wife and sister-in-law, accidentally allow Harry and his friends to escape from Malfoy Manor. Voldemort punishes them severely, eventually putting them under house arrest.
Despite his long-standing position as a Death Eater and Voldemort's advocate of pure-blood supremacy, Lucius decides his love for his family is more important than his involvement in the war. During the Battle of Hogwarts, he pleads with Voldemort to let him onto the battlefield so he can find his son. He is reunited with the rest of his family at the end of the book. Because Narcissa aided Harry in the Forbidden Forest, the Malfoys all manage to avoid being sent to Azkaban after Voldemort's death.
In the film series, Lucius is portrayed by Jason Isaacs as an adult. Scenes with Tony Coburn as a teenage Lucius were recorded for Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, but were cut from the final movie. According to Isaacs, Lucius's desire to be in a position of supremacy and a "fear of the future he doesn't belong in" drive his actions; Isaacs described Lucius as "a repulsive creature [...] a racist [...] a eugenicist [...] a bully [...] a terrible father". When it came to Malfoy's fate, Isaacs surmised in an interview with Syfy Wire that he believes Lucius would not feel like a member of wizarding society again after Voldemort's fall, as society would shun him. Isaacs also states that Lucius would become a shell of his former self, lose the respect of his wife and son, protect himself with his money, and drink himself into an early grave.

Peter Pettigrew
Peter Pettigrew (aka Wormtail) was a close friend of Sirius Black, James Potter, and Remus Lupin. With Sirius and James' help, he became an Animagus who could transform into a rat. After leaving Hogwarts, Pettigrew joined forces with Voldemort, and became his spy in the Order of the Phoenix. When the Potters knew that their son, Harry, was Voldemort's target, Sirius suggested to them to use Pettigrew as Secret-Keeper because he did not believe Voldemort would ever suspect Pettigrew. Pettigrew betrayed the secret to Voldemort, an act that led to James and Lily's deaths. Sirius sought revenge on his new archenemy, Pettigrew, but during the confrontation, Pettigrew publicly accused Sirius of the Potters' deaths and murdered twelve Muggles before turning into a rat, thereby framing Sirius for the betrayal of the Potters, as well as for his own murder and that of the Muggles. Pettigrew hid during the next twelve years, masquerading as a rat. He eventually became Ron Weasley's pet, named Scabbers.
In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Sirius confronts Pettigrew in the Shrieking Shack, where Lupin and Black compel him to resume his human form. Pettigrew confesses his treachery, claiming to have committed it only to save his own life. With Sirius and Lupin about to take their revenge, Harry begs Sirius to turn Pettigrew over to the Ministry of Magic instead, to prove Sirius' innocence. Pettigrew escapes while being led out of the Shack when Lupin transforms into a werewolf. Harry's actions result in Pettigrew owing him a life debt. This would be the reason behind Pettigrew (fruitlessly) trying to convince Voldemort to use the blood of another wizard when Voldemort wanted to use Harry's blood to restore his corporeal form in the next book.
Pettigrew returns to the service of Voldemort and helps him to return to a feeble baby's body. Pettigrew assists Barty Crouch Jr in overpowering Mad-Eye Moody, setting up the events in the fourth book, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. In the climactic confrontation in that book, Pettigrew murders Cedric Diggory on Voldemort's orders, and brews the complex potion to regenerate Voldemort, severing his hand as one of the ingredients. Upon his return to corporeal form, Voldemort replaces Pettigrew's missing hand with a silver one that possesses five intact fingers and great strength. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Pettigrew is tasked with keeping watch over prisoners in the cellar of Malfoy Manor. While Harry and Ron are being kept there, Pettigrew checks on the prisoners and is attacked. Pettigrew begins strangling Harry with the silver hand, but when reminded by Harry that he once saved his life, Pettigrew hesitates for a moment. The silver hand turns against him and strangles him to death as punishment for his moment of pity.
In the films, Pettigrew is portrayed by Timothy Spall as an adult and by Charles Hughes as a teenager. He appears in a flashback in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2.

Severus Snape

Severus Snape is characterised as a person of considerable complexity, whose coldly sarcastic and controlled exterior conceals deep emotions and anguish. In the first novel of the series, Snape is a teacher who is hostile from the start toward Harry and is built up to be the primary antagonist due to his rivalry with Harry's father until the final chapters. As the series progresses, Snape's portrayal evolves from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a complex, pivotal character of moral ambiguity, whose true loyalties are not revealed until the end. With the Death Eaters, Snape kills Dumbledore with the Killing Curse to prevent Draco from murdering him under Dumbledore's order. Snape is, as revealed in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, actually a spy in Voldemort's ranks for Dumbledore. He is later slaughtered by Voldemort and Nagini. His life was seen by Harry, showing Snape's life as a student in Hogwarts and his love for Harry's mother. Alan Rickman plays Severus Snape in all eight movies.

Corban Yaxley
Corban Yaxley is the brutal-faced Death Eater who is present in the battle in which Snape killed Dumbledore. He is one of the more prominent Death Eaters, and one of Voldemort's spies in the Ministry of Magic. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Yaxley is invited to Malfoy Manor to witness the murder of Charity Burbage, and argues with Snape about the correct date of Harry's departure from the Dursleys', but John Dawlish, an Auror who is tricked by an Order member, gives him incorrect information.
Yaxley places the Imperius Curse upon Pius Thicknesse, the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. He uses Thicknesse to Imperius the other major department heads and they allow Voldemort to murder Rufus Scrimgeour; thus Thicknesse becomes Minister for Magic.
When Harry, Ron, and Hermione, disguised as ministry officials, enter the Ministry to find Slytherin's locket, it is revealed that Yaxley has become Head of Magical Law Enforcement. He also assists Dolores Umbridge in leading the Muggle-Born Registration Commission, and the two seem to have a good relationship, together humiliating the Muggle-borns. Both are immobilised by Harry, but Yaxley recovers and grabs Hermione while she is Apparating her friends to safety. Yaxley arrives with them at Grimmauld Place, thus revealing their headquarters, but not the location to which the trio subsequently apparate.
He participates in the Battle of Hogwarts, where he duels with Professor Flitwick and is later seen among those who wait with Voldemort for Harry Potter to come to him, mistakenly believing that Harry would not come within the allotted time. When the battle resumes, he is defeated by George Weasley and Lee Jordan.
Peter Mullan appears as Yaxley in the film adaptation of Deathly Hallows.

Cultural impact
The Mexican heavy metal band Velvet Darkness released the song "Death Eaters" in 2015 as part of their debut EP Delusion. It was later rerecorded in 2018 as bonus track for their debut LP Nothing But Glory, and a music video for the song was released in 2019 with a live recording of it.


================================================================================

# Diagon Alley

Diagon Alley is a fictional shopping district in J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter franchise. It first appeared in the 1997 novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, and has since been featured in additional novels, film adaptations, video games, and a board game. A real-world version of the district was constructed at Universal Studios Florida in 2014.

Places in Diagon Alley
On Charing Cross Road in London, the Leaky Cauldron is a shabby pub and inn that serves as the entrance to Diagon Alley. It is located between a bookstore and a record shop, and is invisible to Muggles. The rear doorway of the pub opens into a courtyard enclosed by a brick wall, and a particular brick must be tapped three times by a magic-user in order to open a passage to Diagon Alley.
Numerous locations within Diagon Alley are notable in the series:

Eeylops Owl Emporium sells owls, which deliver wizard mail, and supplies related to their care. It is here that Rubeus Hagrid purchases the snowy owl Hedwig as a birthday gift for Harry.
Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlour sells ice cream and other treats. Mr. Fortescue, the proprietor, is highly knowledgeable about magical history; in Half-Blood Prince, he has gone missing and his parlour is boarded up.
Flourish & Blotts sells a variety of magical books including Hogwarts textbooks.
Gambol and Japes is a wizarding joke shop.
Gringotts Wizarding Bank is the only wizarding bank mentioned in the novels. It is operated primarily by goblins and contains vaults that are protected by very strong and complex security measures.
Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions sells robes and other clothing.
The Magical Menagerie sells magical creatures and offers advice and supplies for their care. It is here that Hermione purchases her cat Crookshanks.
Ollivanders is a wand shop owned by the wandmaker Mr. Ollivander. His shop closes in Half-Blood Prince after he is kidnapped by Death Eaters. He is rescued by Harry and his friends in Deathly Hallows.
Potage's Cauldron Shop sells various types of cauldrons.
Quality Quidditch Supplies sells broomsticks and Quidditch-related items for both fans and players.
Slug and Jiggers Apothecary sells scales, potions and potion ingredients.
Twilfitt and Tatting's is a clothing shop.
Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes is a popular joke shop founded by Fred and George Weasley. It sells joke and trick items, useful novelties, sweets, and items for use in defence against the Dark Arts. They open the shop in Half-Blood Prince, after several years of product development and owl-order service. The shop is temporarily closed in Deathly Hallows, but Fred and George continue to take and fill owl orders. In the play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, George and his younger brother Ron manage the business, Fred having been killed in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment sells various types of equipment used in the wizarding world.
Market stalls – Diagon Alley contains a variety of stalls which sell magical objects, sweets and trinkets. After Voldemort returns, some wizards illegally peddle amulets and other objects which they claim can protect against Dementors, Inferi and werewolves.

Appearances
Diagon Alley was first featured in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. It is also a location in video game adaptations such as Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Harry Potter: Magic Awakened, and Lego Harry Potter: Years 1–4. The Lego Group released a Diagon Alley themed Lego set in 2020 and another in 2025. A Diagon Alley board game was released in 2001. The former head of marketing for York's tourist body Paul Whiting stated the film producers went to York for inspiration.

Real-world adaptations

Several fan adaptions of Diagon Alley have been made. Some notable examples include a pop up Diagon Alley in Sykesville, Maryland, a Diagon Alley-themed Christmas display in Austin, Texas, and a pop-up Diagon Alley in the Changi Airport.
A rebuilt version of the original Diagon Alley set is currently in the Warner Bros. Leavesden Studio Tour.

Universal Studios Florida

A real-world version of Diagon Alley was unveiled at Universal Studios Florida in 2014. The attraction was estimated to cost Universal approximately $400 million (equivalent to $521,000,000 in 2024). In the week preceding the announcement of the attraction, The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon was used to promote the Harry Potter franchise and Universal Resorts. After the release of Diagon Alley, Jimmy Fallon moved his show to Universal. Fallon brought Pitbull and Jennifer Lopez as guest stars for the episodes filmed at Universal. The creation of Diagon Alley was achieved by dismantling a Jaws attraction.
There are several restaurant and retail locations relating to the Harry Potter universe in Diagon Alley, alongside the Escape from Gringotts ride. There is also an adaptation of the Hogwarts Express that takes people between Hogsmeade (which is in Universal Islands of Adventure) and Diagon Alley.

Reception and legacy
Before the release of Hogwarts Legacy, some media outlets speculated that Diagon Alley could be a visitable place in the game, but considered it unlikely. After the release of the game, several advocated for the inclusion of Diagon Alley in any potential sequel.
IGN ranked the 2025 Diagon Alley Lego set as the 11th best Harry Potter Lego set of all time. Patrick Cavanaugh, writing for ComicBook.com, criticized the size of the set but described the set as a "detailed and delightful display." Sophie Brown, writing for Wired, rated the Diagon Alley board game as a 4/5.
Scott Reintgen described the first time Harry Potter goes to Diagon Alley in the film version of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone as his favorite scene in the movie. Charlie Lyne, writing for The Guardian, compared the same scene to "getting a massive nostalgia cuddle from your mind."
The dragon at the end of Diagon Alley in Universal Studios Florida has been described as noticeable. Bonnie Wright described Universal Studios Florida's Diagon Alley as "more detailed than on the set". Carly Caramanna, writing for Business Insider, praised the food and drink options at Universal Florida's Diagon Alley. Others praised the Escape from Gringotts ride.


================================================================================

# Dolores Umbridge

Dolores Jane Umbridge is a fictional character from the Harry Potter series created by J. K. Rowling. Umbridge is the main antagonist of the fifth novel, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, where she has been stationed at Hogwarts by the Ministry of Magic to take power away from Albus Dumbledore. She returns in a smaller capacity in the sixth novel, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and the seventh and final novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, where she oversees the Muggle Born Registration Commission.
During her time at Hogwarts, Umbridge grows in power and is appointed High Inquisitor by the Minister for Magic in an attempt to control the school. Despite being assigned as the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Umbridge refuses to teach anything practical in the subject, which leads to the formation of Dumbledore's Army as a way for the students to learn how to defend themselves. Umbridge is physically described in the narrative as a fat, toad-like woman with a wide slack mouth, a large black bow that is often in her mousy brown hair and a high-pitched voice.
Critics have recognised Umbridge as one of the most hated, as well as the most compelling, villains in the series. Umbridge was portrayed by Imelda Staunton in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1, and in 2026 by Keira Knightley in the Audible dramatised recordings of the fifth and seventh novels.

Fictional character biography
Dolores Jane Umbridge was born to a Wizard father and a Muggle mother, and eventually had a younger brother who was a Squib. Under the influence of her father, Umbridge grew up despising her mother and brother for their lack of magical abilities. She was sorted into Slytherin House at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and hated her time at the school due to never being given any positions of power.
After her time at Hogwarts, Umbridge rose to prominent and influential positions in the Ministry of Magic in the Improper Use of Magic Office. After a while, Umbridge became the Senior Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge. Umbridge used this position of power to satisfy her hatred of part-humans, for example through new Anti-Werewolf Legislation which made it nearly impossible for Remus Lupin to find a new job after resigning his post as Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor at Hogwarts in 1994.
After rumours of Voldemort's return and the increased paranoia of Cornelius Fudge, Umbridge set two dementors on Harry Potter and his cousin Dudley Dursley in Little Whinging in an attempt to get him expelled from Hogwarts for use of magic outside of school. During Harry's trial, Umbridge tried to intimidate him to undermine his defence: that he had used the Patronus Charm only because the dementors were about to permanently incapacitate him and Dudley. In the end, Umbridge, Fudge and a few other members of the court voted for conviction, but Harry was cleared of the charges.

Reign over Hogwarts
After the trial, the Ministry of Magic appointed Umbridge as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts to allow the Ministry to monitor the activities within Hogwarts, and particularly the Headmaster Albus Dumbledore. Fudge had an irrational belief that Dumbledore was attempting to overthrow his position as Minister and was using the students to do so. As a result, Umbridge refused to teach any sort of martial magic and saw her return to the school as an opportunity to gain power over the people who had refused to give her any positions of responsibility during her schooling.
Umbridge made a negative impression on the students of Hogwarts at the Start-of-Term Feast, where she interrupted Dumbledore and talked to the students in a condescending manner. She began interfering with the students learning at Hogwarts by refusing to teach any practical applications despite her post as Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. Due to the apparent return of Voldemort that was being silenced by the Ministry, students such as Harry, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger and Dean Thomas began openly opposing Umbridge's insistence on theoretical applications. Harry's constant objections in Umbridge's class due to his being present at Voldemort's return and witnessing the murder of Cedric Diggory led him to a detention with Umbridge. She forced him to write "I must not tell lies" with a cursed quill that scarred the phrase into his hand permanently.
Umbridge was appointed as Hogwarts "High Inquisitor" by the Ministry to evaluate, harass or fire any teacher deemed unsatisfactory by her. This found her often at odds with Transfiguration professor and Head of Gryffindor House Minerva McGonagall. She further made notices in accord with Ministry Educational Decrees that prevented teachers from talking to students about anything but their subject, and gave the Hogwarts High Inquisitor additional powers. Umbridge abolished all student groups, which included the House Quidditch teams. Eventually Harry, Ron and Hermione formed Dumbledore's Army as a way to teach students how to use defensive spells in a practical format. The group was a secret organisation that would meet in the Room of Requirement, a hidden room in Hogwarts.
After Harry gave an interview with The Quibbler where he discussed Voldemort's return, Umbridge banned the magazine from Hogwarts. She also restricted Harry's privileges. Unbeknownst to Umbridge, banning the magazine triggered a Streisand effect of encouraging most people in Hogwarts to read the interview, which they hid from her via a variety of spells to transfigure the magazine into harmless schoolbooks if she questioned them, leading more individuals to begin opposing her presence in the castle.
Umbridge sacked Divination Professor Sybill Trelawney, but was unsuccessful in evicting her from the castle due to Dumbledore's intervention. Dumbledore then purposely appointed centaur Firenze as the new Divination Professor, being aware of Umbridge's contempt for non-human magical beings.
Dumbledore's Army was eventually betrayed by Ravenclaw student Marietta Edgecombe. She was threatened by Umbridge that if she didn't turn them over, her mother would lose her job at the Ministry. Umbridge attempted to have Harry expelled from Hogwarts, but Dumbledore took the blame for the group's formation and disappeared from Hogwarts to avoid arrest.
Umbridge was appointed as the new Headmistress of Hogwarts by Fudge. She then formed the Inquisitorial Squad, composed entirely of Slytherin students such as Draco Malfoy. Despite Dumbledore's Army being banned, the rebellion against Umbridge continued, mainly expressed by the ongoing pranks of Fred and George Weasley. Before Umbridge could catch the twins, they fled Hogwarts on their broomsticks after encouraging the castle's poltergeist Peeves to continue tormenting Umbridge in their absence. The castle itself seemed to recognise that Umbridge was not the true Headmistress, as it denied her access to the Headmaster's Office.
After Umbridge sacked Care of Magical Creatures professor Rubeus Hagrid due to his half-breed status, Professor McGonagall attempted to intervene, which resulted in Umbridge and a squad of aurors attacking her so severely she was hospitalised at St. Mungo's. She also intercepted all manner of communications to prevent Harry from contacting his godfather Sirius Black and the Order of the Phoenix, even going so far as to injure Harry's pet owl Hedwig.
She eventually caught Harry attempting to use the Floo Network in her office to contact Sirius. This resulted in Dumbledore's Army members Harry, Ron, Hermione, Neville Longbottom, Ginny Weasley and Luna Lovegood being rounded up by the Inquisitorial Squad and held in her office. When Harry refused to give Umbridge any information, she called Potions Master Severus Snape to provide her with the truth-telling potion Veritaserum, but Snape informed her that she had squandered his entire stock interrogating students. Umbridge then believed that the illegal Cruciatus Curse would cause Harry to loosen his tongue. Hermione attempted to protest, but Umbridge brushed her off and revealed that she had ordered the dementor attack on Harry and Dudley during the summer.
Hermione tricked Umbridge into following Harry and herself into the Forbidden Forest to search for Dumbledore's alleged "secret weapon". Umbridge was confronted by a herd of centaurs, whom she insulted with racial slurs. She then attacked a centaur. As a result, Umbridge was carried off and nearly killed by the herd. She was saved by Dumbledore, who managed to calm the herd due to their respect for him and brought her out without a scratch but in a severe state of shock.
After Voldemort was sighted in the Ministry of Magic by numerous people including Fudge, Dumbledore was reinstated as Headmaster at Hogwarts, and Umbridge was sacked. She attempted to sneak out of the school but encountered Peeves, who chased her out of the school with McGonagall's cane to the delight of students and teachers alike.

Return to the Ministry of Magic
After her dismissal from Hogwarts, Umbridge returned to the Ministry as the Senior Undersecretary to the new Minister, Rufus Scrimgeour. She purposely chose to continue to torment Harry by informing the Minister of Harry's wish to become an auror. Harry refused to trust Scrimgeour or the Ministry of Magic due to the fact that Umbridge was never sacked or arrested for her actions.
Umbridge was later seen at Dumbledore's funeral, attempting to look appropriately somber. She was startled by the appearance of Firenze, clearly having been traumatised by her encounter with the centaurs.
After Voldemort's takeover of the Ministry of Magic, Umbridge oversaw the registration and persecution of Muggle-born witches and wizards, sometimes referred to as mudbloods, under the Muggle-Born Registration Commission. In her position, Umbridge conducted biased trials that subjected Muggle-born witches and wizards to dementors and have them sent to Azkaban prison for "stealing magic from real witches and wizards". Following Alastor Moody's murder, Umbridge somehow obtained possession of his magical prosthetic eye and had it affixed into the door to her office as a way of terrorising Ministry employees and reminding them she was observing them at all times.
At some point, Umbridge received a locket as a bribe from thief Mundungus Fletcher. The pendant was actually Salazar Slytherin's locket and was, unbeknownst to her, one of Voldemort's Horcruxes. Due to Umbridge's twisted nature, the Horcrux actually amplified her magical abilities.
During one of her kangaroo court trials, she accused Mary Cattermole of having stolen her wand and alleged she was not a true witch. Harry appeared from under his Cloak of Invisibility and attacked Umbridge, allowing Harry and Hermione to take Slytherin's locket from her in order to destroy the Horcrux. Hermione duplicated the locket and left the fake with Umbridge to allay suspicion.
After Voldemort's defeat by Harry at the Battle of Hogwarts and the restoration of the Ministry of Magic by the new Minister, Kingsley Shacklebolt, Umbridge was sentenced to life imprisonment in Azkaban for her crimes against Muggle-borns.

Characterisation

Umbridge is depicted in the novels as being an evil, cruel, authoritarian, power-hungry, bigoted and despicable woman who represented the worst of political power, under a saccharine image filled with kittens, fluff, and girlishness. She is sadistic and overwhelmingly corrupt, to the point of finding joy in torturing students. Harry describes Umbridge to Sirius Black, saying that she's vile enough to be a Death Eater, despite not being one.
Umbridge is also depicted to be a prejudiced person, despising half-breeds and Muggle-born witches and wizards to the point of firing Hagrid due to his half-giant birth status. She displayed her intolerance to the centaur Firenze, shouting racial insults towards the herd of centaurs that confronted her in the Forbidden Forest. Umbridge was a "pure-blood supremacist" and attempted to mask her half-blood status, often lambasting her Muggle mother and Squib younger brother.
As to her full name, Rowling has written, "Umbridge's names were carefully chosen. 'Dolores' means sorrow, something she undoubtedly inflicts on all around her. 'Umbridge' is a play on 'umbrage' from the British expression 'to take umbrage', meaning offence. Dolores is offended by any challenge to her limited worldview; I felt her surname conveyed the pettiness and rigidity of her character. It is harder to explain 'Jane'; it simply felt rather smug and neat between her other two names." An article from Dictionary.com observes that the Latin (and Spanish) word dolor can mean both "sorrow" or "pain", while the aforementioned umbrage ("offense" or "annoyance") comes from the Latin umbra ("shade" or "shadow").

Reception and impact
Umbridge has been described as one of the most hated fictional characters. Charlotte Ahlin of Bustle said that Umbridge's nastiness "got under every reader's skin." The entertainment website IGN called her a hideous and nasty character who applies "despicable" punishments. In a review of the Order of the Phoenix novel, author Stephen King called Umbridge one of the best antagonists he had ever read, and the greatest fictional villain since Hannibal Lecter. Imelda Staunton received widespread acclaim for her performance as Umbridge in the Harry Potter films. Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly called her "showstopping".

Real-life comparisons and inspiration
Occasionally, real-life public figures have been compared to Umbridge in a negative light due to their actions. Rival US Presidential candidates Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton were both compared to Umbridge during the 2016 United States presidential election. Former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Margaret Thatcher was an influence on the way the character was portrayed in the film adaptations, according to director David Yates and actress Imelda Staunton. Rowling has stated that Umbridge is in fact based on a teacher of hers and was not inspired by Thatcher.


================================================================================

# Draco Malfoy

Draco Malfoy is a fictional character and a major antagonist in J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter series. He is a student in Harry Potter's year belonging in the Slytherin house. He is frequently accompanied by his two cronies, Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle, who act as henchmen. Draco is characterised as a cowardly bully who tricks and hurts people to get what he wants; he is also a cunning user of magic. He was played by Tom Felton in the Harry Potter film series, while Lox Pratt is set to portray him in the TV series adaptation.

Character development
Draco serves as a foil to the hero, Harry Potter, and is loosely based on bullies Rowling encountered during her school days. Harry first encounters Draco's snobbish bigotry after their initial encounter at Madam Malkin's. Rowling uses the Malfoys to introduce themes of intolerance and bigotry into a setting where people are often judged solely by their blood lineage rather than their good character or accomplishments. Draco, adhering to his family's beliefs, thinks that Muggle-born witches and wizards, which he and other characters derogatorily describe by the epithet Mudbloods, should be denied a magical education. Harry's first impression that the Wizarding community is a "magical wonderland" is instantly shattered. Says Rowling, "[Harry] found out that many people in power in the wizarding world are just as corrupt and nasty as they are in our world."
Malfoy was originally named "Draco Spungen" in the earliest drafts of Philosopher's Stone. "Spungen" also appeared on her pre-canon class list, but it was crossed out and replaced with the surname "Spinks", while "Malfoy" was later added after the completion of the list. Philip Nel believes that Malfoy is derived from the French phrase mal foi, meaning "bad faith".
In an article published in 2002, Nilsen and Nilsen argue that "Draco" has connotations with draconian, and that his name starts with "mal", a French prefix for "bad" or "evil".

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Draco Malfoy makes his first appearance in the series when he and Harry meet while being fitted for school robes at Madam Malkin's, a clothing shop in Diagon Alley. Not realising that the boy in the store is Harry Potter—a child whose parents were murdered when he was one year old by the powerful dark wizard Lord Voldemort—Draco engages him in polite (relative to his later attitude towards Harry) conversation. Harry, however, is alienated by the arrogance of Draco, who asks whether the orphan's parents are "our kind" (pure-blood wizards). Draco then proclaims that "the other sort" (Muggle-borns) should not be allowed at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, because "they've never been brought up to know our ways". The two boys part without introductions, but meet again on the Hogwarts Express. After Draco ridicules Ron Weasley's family, Harry rejects his offer of friendship, demonstrated by a handshake, and their mutual antagonism is born.
According to Rowling, Malfoy originally makes an effort to be Harry's friend because "it will be cool to turn up at the school being Harry Potter's friend, because Harry is so famous." However, Harry did not want Malfoy as a friend because he "has been so rude about Rubeus Hagrid and about Ron, who Harry likes so much".
At the first years' Sorting Ceremony, the Sorting Hat places him instantly into Slytherin, the house that has developed all of the bad wizards, where he becomes an instant favourite of Potions teacher and Slytherin Head of House, Severus Snape, an apparent follower of Lord Voldemort. Draco attempts to get Harry expelled by falsely challenging him to a midnight duel and informing Argus Filch in advance of Harry's plans to be out of bed; Draco's attempt fails when Harry evades Filch and safely makes it back to his dormitory.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
In Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Draco becomes the new Seeker for the Slytherin Quidditch team after his father, Lucius Malfoy, donates new, high-quality Nimbus 2001 broomsticks. When Hermione Granger comments that the Gryffindor players made the team through talent and not bribery, Draco responds by calling her a "Mudblood", a derogatory term for people of mixed magical and human ancestry. This provokes an immediate, violent response from Ron. Because of Draco's contempt for Muggle-borns, Harry, Ron, and Hermione suspect that Draco is the Heir of Slytherin, who has recently reopened the Chamber of Secrets. Harry and Ron disguise themselves as Crabbe and Goyle with Polyjuice Potion and infiltrate the Slytherin common room in an attempt to collect additional information, whereupon they realise that their initial suspicion about Draco is incorrect.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
During Hagrid's debut as Care of Magical Creatures instructor in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Buckbeak the hippogriff attacks Draco after he fails to observe proper protocol while approaching it and insults it. He exaggerates the extent of his injury, giving Slytherin a chance to postpone their Quidditch match against Gryffindor until later in the year and as an attempt to have Hagrid fired. Hermione punches Draco when he mocks Hagrid for crying over Buckbeak's death sentence. Draco, who implies that he is aware of how Sirius Black was supposedly involved in the deaths of Harry's parents, also taunts Harry about the impending threat of Black: "If it was me, I'd want revenge. I'd hunt him down myself."

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
After Harry is unexpectedly chosen as a Triwizard Tournament champion in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Draco shows off a "Support Cedric Diggory" badge to Harry, then presses it to replace the phrase with "Potter Stinks." Draco also gives malicious and often false information about Harry and Hagrid to muckraking Daily Prophet journalist Rita Skeeter. When Draco attempts to curse Harry behind his back, the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Alastor Moody (actually Barty Crouch, Jr in disguise via Polyjuice Potion) humiliates Draco by transforming him into a ferret and repeatedly slamming him against the ground as well as dropping him down Goyle's pants.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Draco is named a Slytherin prefect along with Pansy Parkinson. He gets Harry and the Weasley twins banned from the Gryffindor Quidditch team when they attack him during a postmatch brawl after Draco insults their families following Gryffindor's win over Slytherin. He later joins Dolores Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad, with whom he plays an important part in the exposure of Dumbledore's Army. As the D.A. flees the Room of Requirement, Draco earns Slytherin fifty points after catching Harry, and helps hold several members captive in Umbridge's office, letting them free only after Ginny Weasley performs her famous Bat Bogey Hex. After his father and other Death Eaters are captured and sentenced to Azkaban following the events at the Department of Mysteries, Draco twice attempts to get revenge on Harry, but Snape and Minerva McGonagall thwart his first effort, and while returning home on the Hogwarts Express, Draco, Crabbe, and Goyle are transformed into giant slugs by a barrage of hexes cast by several D.A. members coming to Harry's defence.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Draco is drawn into Death-Eaters' activities more directly in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. Because of Lucius' arrest and fall from Voldemort's favour, Narcissa Malfoy and Bellatrix Lestrange visit Snape at his home to discuss a dangerous task that Voldemort has assigned Draco. Narcissa, deeply worried that her son will be killed in his attempt to complete it, begs Snape to make an Unbreakable Vow to aid Draco with this task and protect him at all costs, and if Draco fails to complete the mission, he will complete it himself; he agrees.
Under the Invisibility Cloak, Harry, Ron, and Hermione follow Draco to Borgin and Burkes, a dark magic shop in Knockturn Alley. Draco threatens Mr. Borgin about repairing one item and keeping another safe for him. Draco shows Mr. Borgin something on his arm that Harry believes to be the Dark Mark, Voldemort's sign, though whether or not Harry is correct is never confirmed. (In the film version Draco Malfoy shows Dumbledore the Dark Mark on his arm.) On the Hogwarts Express, Harry invisibly spies on Draco and overhears him discussing Voldemort's task with several other Slytherins. Draco knows Harry is present and, once alone in the compartment, immobilises him and breaks his nose causing Harry to hate Draco even more. Harry is left stranded on the train until Nymphadora Tonks (Luna Lovegood in the film adaptation) rescues him. Harry spends much of the year trailing Draco's whereabouts on his Marauder's Map, but loses track of him once Draco enters the Room of Requirement. When Katie Bell is almost killed in Hogsmeade after handling a cursed necklace and Ron nearly dies by drinking poisoned mead, Harry suspects Draco is behind both attacks.
In this book, Draco is, for the first time since being introduced in the series, portrayed as having considerable initiative, ingenuity, and perseverance. However, unlike Harry, who always relies on his friends' support and help, Draco mostly works alone in the Room of Requirement, refusing to confide in or involve his own circle of friends, whom he treats more as underlings. This, and the realisation of what he is ultimately expected to do, nearly drives him to a nervous breakdown. When Harry walks in on Malfoy crying in Moaning Myrtle's bathroom, Draco attempts to cast the Cruciatus Curse. Harry is faster to the draw with an obscure Sectumsempra spell that he learned from the mysterious Half-Blood Prince's book. The spell cuts deep gashes into Malfoy's face and chest, resulting in severe blood loss. Snape, alerted by Myrtle's screams, swiftly arrives and heals Draco's cuts, then takes him to the hospital wing.
Near the conclusion, Draco ambushes and disarms a gravely weakened Dumbledore at the Astronomy Tower. After Draco disarms him, Dumbledore calmly reasons with the frightened teenager and persuades him to reveal how he was, according to Voldemort's orders, to kill the headmaster through the cursed necklace and the poisoned mead. Malfoy reveals that he mended the broken Vanishing Cabinet in the Room of Requirement to act as a portal enabling Death Eaters to enter Hogwarts. Draco is hesitant to kill Dumbledore and he eventually lowers his wand. Snape arrives, dispatches Dumbledore himself and then flees Hogwarts with Draco in tow. As revealed during his confrontation with Dumbledore, Draco was an insecure boy incapable of committing cold-blooded murder and was forced to do Voldemort's bidding under the threat of his and his parents' deaths. Harry, who was horrified by the result of his duel with Draco in the bathroom incident, feels "the tiniest drop of pity mingled with his dislike" for his old rival.
During an interview in 2005, Rowling revealed that she enjoyed writing Draco in this book, and that the character "did a lot of growing up" as well.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
The Malfoys remain reluctant followers of Voldemort, who now uses their home as his headquarters; Draco passes out after witnessing Voldemort murder Muggle Studies professor Charity Burbage. Harry experiences occasional and disturbing visions of Draco being forced into performing Voldemort's bidding and feels "sickened... by the use to which Draco was now being put by Voldemort." When Harry, Ron, and Hermione are captured and taken to Malfoy Manor, Draco is asked to identify them, and though they are clearly recognisable, he only ambiguously replies "It might be." During the successful escape from Malfoy Manor headed by Dobby, Harry overpowers Draco and captures his wand.
When Harry, Ron, and Hermione seek Ravenclaw's diadem in the Room of Requirement, Draco, along with Crabbe and Goyle (Blaise Zabini in film version rather than Crabbe), attempts to capture Harry alive. However, Crabbe (Goyle in film version) defies Draco's orders and attempts to kill the trio by casting the deadly Fiendfyre; unable to control the spell, he dies in the blaze while the trio rescue Draco and Goyle (Zabini in film version). Draco, despite his often condescending and belittling attitude toward Crabbe and Goyle (as well as his other underlings), grieves for his lost friend. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Draco is seen pleading with a Death Eater who seems intent on killing him. He is once again saved by Harry and Ron, the latter of whom punches Draco in the face under the invisibility cloak for attempting to appease the Death Eater.
At about this time, it is revealed through the Pensieve that Dumbledore had known he was dying after being cursed by Voldemort's ring. However, to spare Draco's soul from being forever tainted by committing murder, Dumbledore pre-arranged his own death with Snape. Voldemort intended Draco to die in the attempt to kill Dumbledore so that Lucius would be punished for his failure to retrieve the prophecy from the Ministry of Magic.
After Harry is struck by the Avada Kedavra curse, Voldemort orders Narcissa to verify that Harry is actually dead. She detects his heartbeat, but she lies to Voldemort, knowing that she will be allowed to search for her son if the Death Eaters return to Hogwarts "as part of the conquering army." Although Draco does not directly take part in Harry's final confrontation with Voldemort, as he and his parents flee the battle for their personal safety, he influences its outcome; a plot twist reveals that Draco had unwittingly become the Elder Wand's master when he disarmed Dumbledore, even though Draco never actually possessed the wand. The wand's allegiance passes to whoever defeats its owner, so Harry, having taken Draco's wand at Malfoy Manor, became its new master; this prevents Voldemort from using its full power. In the end, it is Narcissa's lie to Voldemort concerning Harry's death that enables the Malfoys to narrowly avoid imprisonment in Azkaban.

Epilogue
In the epilogue, Draco marries Astoria Greengrass and has a son, Scorpius Malfoy.  Draco's hairline has receded, making his face look even more pointed. Though they are not friends, Malfoy has somewhat decreased his animosity toward Harry, and, upon seeing them at King's Cross station, gives a brief and curt nod to Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny.

Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
In the play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Draco appears with his son Scorpius Hyperion Malfoy, who became best friends with Harry's second son Albus Severus Potter. It was revealed that during the fourth year of Scorpius's time in Hogwarts that Draco became widowed, as his wife Astoria Malfoy (née Greengrass) died due to an inherited blood curse, which could shorten her lifespan and prevent her from growing into old age.
The play also explores some of Draco's later life after the second wizarding war and prior to the events of the play. Due to his harrowing experiences during his time with the Death Eaters and his remorse over his crimes as a Death Eater, Draco had realised the error in his ways and thus abandoned the old pure-blood beliefs he was raised to believe in. This notably caused friction between him and his parents (who maintained these beliefs despite having defected from Voldemort). As he grew into adulthood, Draco fell in love with fellow Slytherin Astoria Greengrass, who also witnessed the carnage and horrors which the war and the old beliefs brought about (though lesser than Draco). This romance and eventual marriage would disappoint Draco's parents further given that they expected a more suitable candidate from one of the wizarding world's oldest pure-blood families and also an individual who had the embodiment of the old pure-blood beliefs. Despite having lost the favour of his parents, he still inherits the massive fortune of the Malfoy family, which made him independently wealthy and having no need to work. The inheritance also included his father's collection of Dark Arts artefacts.
After he married, Draco initially contemplated letting the Malfoy bloodline end with him to allow Astoria to live longer (much to Lucius's disappointment), as he was aware of Astoria's family blood curse and that childbirth would weaken her further. Astoria, however, dissuaded him from doing so as she wanted a child not for the pure-blood beliefs, but for him so that he will not be alone should she die some day, which culminated in the birth of Draco's first and only child Scorpius. Draco had once considered the birth of his son as the greatest day of his life, even though Scorpius's birth had further weakened Astoria's health and eventually caused her to die fourteen years later.
Draco was strict in Scorpius's upbringing and taught him to not believe in the old pure-blood beliefs and instead raised him to become a better child than Draco was in his own childhood, and was willing to allow his son to be punished for breaking school rules. He was also supportive of Scorpius's decision to befriend Harry's son Albus Severus, even though he and Harry had a history of animosity during their schooling years. Draco even trusted Albus to help Scorpius to heal him of his pain over losing his mother, and he valued his son's friendship to the point that he personally went to the Potter house to confront Harry, who tried to separate the two best friends. Despite having become more civil with his old enemies from the past, Draco remained apathetic and full of mockery towards them, including how he continued to mock Harry and his friends and sending a cold reply letter to Ginny's request to invite Scorpius to stay in the Potter house. These feelings only began to dissipate gradually as they became united by their common interest to save their sons. He was also revealed to be constantly envious of how Harry had true friends like Ron and Hermione (the latter whom became Minister for Magic) during his schooling years while he had only Crabbe and Goyle, who did not amount to being true friends for Draco.
During the events of the play, Draco slowly made amends with Harry and his friends as they all embarked on a journey to save their sons from Voldemort's daughter Delphini, demonstrating his slow, but gradual acknowledgement of Harry as a friend and his outright denouncement of his Death Eater past.

Portrayal

Film portrayal
Tom Felton played Draco Malfoy in all of the Harry Potter films. Prior to landing the part of Malfoy, Felton auditioned to play Harry and Ron.
Felton contributed to premieres, articles and interviews, and received the Disney Channel's Kids Awards for Best DVD Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets on 22 September 2003 with Hermione Granger actress, Emma Watson. He also won the MTV Movie Award for Best Villain for his portrayal as Malfoy in the 2010 MTV Movie Awards and the 2011 MTV Movie Awards.

Malfoy grew into one of the series' most popular characters due to Felton's performances, and Felton quickly became synonymous with the character to many female fans, much to Rowling's dismay. "I'm trying to clearly distinguish between Tom Felton, who is a good-looking young boy, and Draco, who, whatever he looks like, is not a nice man. It's a romantic, but unhealthy, and unfortunately all too common delusion of girls ... it actually worried me a little bit, to see young girls swearing undying devotion to this really imperfect character ... I mean, I understand the psychology of it, but it is pretty unhealthy." Rowling has also noted that Malfoy "is certainly stylish in the film".

Theatre portrayal
In the theatre play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Draco was portrayed by Alex Price and later by James Howard. Beginning in 2025, Tom Felton began playing the role, reprising it from the film series. In the theatre play Draco has a style like his father's, such as his long hair. Draco was married to Astoria Greengrass, who had died, and has a son named Scorpius.

Characterisation

Outward appearance
Draco is described as a tall, slender boy with a pale, pointed face, sleek blond hair, and ice grey eyes.

Personality
Draco is the prototypical spoiled, rich brat; he believes that his family's wealth and social position gives him the right to bully those poorer than himself, such as Ron Weasley. He also insults Hermione Granger's Muggle-born status by referring to her as a "Mudblood", a term that, as stated by Hagrid, is one not used in civilised conversations. As Rowling explained in 1999, "He's a bigot and he's a bully, and as I say, in the most refined sense, he knows exactly what will hurt people".
In a July 2005 interview, Rowling added that Draco, unlike Harry, never feels remorse for his actions: "I thought of Draco as someone who is very capable of compartmentalising his life and his emotions, and always has done. So he's shut down his pity, enabling him to bully effectively. He's shut down compassion— how else would you become a Death Eater?"
Draco, as well as Dudley Dursley, was indoctrinated with his parents' beliefs. Rowling commented that "The moment Draco got what he thought he wanted, to become a Death Eater, and given a mission by Lord Voldemort, as he did in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, reality finally hit him" because his dream was "so very different". Rowling also stated that there was a real moral cowardice in Draco, but that he was not wholly bad.
Having gone through the horrors of the second wizarding war as a Death Eater, Draco abandoned the pure-blood beliefs he was originally devoted to and grew to become a better person than he was in his youth, becoming more tolerant and accepting of the non-pure-bloods of the wizarding world. He also made sure to discipline his son Scorpius to be a better child than he himself was in his youth, which made Scorpius to show kindness and become friends with Harry's son Albus Severus, as evidence of his reformation.

Magical abilities and skills
During the series, Draco is portrayed as a cunning, competent young wizard. In his second year, he successfully performed the Tarantallegra curse against Harry, a curse used by Death Eater Antonin Dolohov in book 5, and also successfully cast the Serpensortia spell in the same scene, conjuring a serpent from his wand just as Voldemort would later do against Dumbledore in book 5, and Snape against McGonagall in the final book. His character further develops in the sixth book, in which he is among very few students able to reach the required level to take Advanced Potions. Draco also proved capable at Occlumency, which he learned from his Aunt Bellatrix. Rowling recalled a discussion with her editor about Draco having mastered Occlumency while Harry could not. The author said that this is due to Draco being someone "very capable of compartmentalising his life and his emotions". Draco's wand is 10 inches precisely, made of hawthorn with a unicorn hair core, and which Ollivander states is "reasonably springy".
When asked what shape Draco's Patronus Charm is, Rowling replied that, at least by the end of the sixth book, Draco was not capable of producing a Patronus, as it is not magic routinely taught at Hogwarts.

Reception
In a 2003 interview, Rowling noted that boys liked to dress up as Malfoy a lot more than Harry, and that people were "getting far too fond of Draco", which she found "a little bit worrying". In the same interview, Stephen Fry noted that just as Harry met Malfoy, he found out that there is also racism in the wizarding world and that many characters in power can be "as nasty and corrupt as in our world".

In popular culture

Wizard-rock band Draco and the Malfoys' lyrics are inspired by the Harry Potter books but from Draco Malfoy's point of view. As well as Harry and the Potters, the members of Draco and the Malfoys dress themselves as Hogwarts students, in this case in Slytherin-themed costumes. The band is one of about 750 bands of young musicians playing music inspired by the Harry Potter series.
Draco is parodied as Jerko Phoenix in the series Wizards of Waverly Place, during the episodes "Wizard School Part 1" and "Wizard School Part 2", in which Alex and Justin Russo go to a wizarding school named Wiz-tech, where everyone wears yellow and black robes, and glasses reminiscent of Harry Potter. Draco also appears as Sacco (played by Shane Lyons) in the Harry Bladder sketches in All That, in which Harry Bladder and other students often encounter Sacco's mischief-making. In the stage production Harry Potter and the Obnoxious Voice, Malfoy is seen interacting with Hagrid and a dementor. Draco was also parodied in a Big Bite sketch, where he was known as Mailboy (with his father Lucius being parodied as Mailman). In Neil Cicierega's Potter Puppet Pals, Draco stars in the episode "Draco Puppet". He is different from all the other characters, simplistically made out of paper and is a smaller puppet, held and voiced by the Harry puppet. Harry created him in order to torture him, and after the puppet "annoys" Harry, he does a series of strange things to the paper Draco and eventually burns it on a stove. In A Very Potter Musical Draco is played by actress Lauren Lopez. He has a very obvious crush on Hermione and spends a great deal of time posing and rolling around on the floor.


================================================================================

# Fictional universe of Harry Potter

The fictional universe of the Harry Potter series of novels contains two distinct societies: the "wizarding world" and the "Muggle world". The term "Muggle world" refers to a society inhabited by non-magical humans ("Muggles"), while the term "wizarding world" refers to a society of wizards that live parallel to Muggles. The wizarding world is described as a veiled society wherein magic is commonly used and practised; the wizards live in self-enforced seclusion and hide their abilities from Muggles. The novels are set in 1990s Britain, which contains both Muggle and wizard communities. Any new works taking place in this universe are released under the Wizarding World brand.

Fundamentals
The plot of the Harry Potter series occurs between 1991 and 1998. The exceptions are the opening chapter of the first novel, which takes place in 1981, and the epilogue of the seventh novel, which takes place in 2017. Evidence of this time period comes in the second novel, when the ghost character Nearly Headless Nick is celebrating the 500th anniversary of his 1492 death. At various points throughout the Harry Potter timeline, flashbacks and flash-forwards depict time periods ranging from the 1920s to the 2020s. The depiction of the wizarding world is centred on magic, which not only imbues objects such as wands, but is also portrayed as an inborn ability of individuals. This organic ability can be honed and mastered through study and practice.
Wizards expend a great deal of effort keeping Muggles unaware of magic and the wizarding world. The novels explain that in the past, the two worlds co-existed. Over the centuries, persecution of wizards by Muggles resulted in the creation of laws designed to keep the wizarding world hidden, such as the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy of 1692. Enchantment of Muggle artifacts is forbidden, underage wizards are restricted from using magic outside of school, and any deliberate revelation of magical ability to the Muggle community is punishable. These laws are enforced by the British Ministry of Magic and the International Confederation of Wizards. There are some exceptions: Muggle relatives of British wizards are allowed to know about the wizarding world, as is the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
The film Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) depicts wizarding laws in the United States during the 1920s. These laws differ in some ways from those in 1990s Britain. For example, the film reveals that American wizards are forbidden from having any social relationships with non-magical people.
In the Harry Potter series, some aspects of the wizarding world are depicted as being less-than-modern compared to the Muggle world. Candles are used for illumination instead of electrical or gas lamps, and owls are used to send messages instead of phone calls or emails. Instead of using pens or computers to take notes and write essays, Hogwarts students use ink-dipped quills and parchment. Wizards do not use paper currency, but instead rely on three types of coins: the gold Galleon, the silver Sickle, and the bronze Knut. The wizarding world does have at least one train, the Hogwarts Express, which is pulled by a steam locomotive. The novels depict wizards using a magic-powered equivalent to radio, but there is not an equivalent to television.

Magic
J. K. Rowling, the creator of Harry Potter, based many magical elements in her fictional universe on real-world mythology and folklore. She has described this derivation as "a way of giving texture to the world". Before publishing the first Harry Potter novel, Rowling spent five years establishing the limitations of magic – determining what it can and cannot do. "The most important thing to decide when you're creating a fantasy world," she said in 2000, "is what the characters can't do." In the novels, the character Hermione Granger explains that food cannot be conjured out of thin air. Wizards can prepare it using magic and even multiply it, but they cannot create it. According to Rowling, money also cannot be conjured from nothing.
Wizards must learn how to control their magic. In young and untrained children, magical effects will occur spontaneously during moments of strong emotion. In the novels, almost all intentional magic is performed with a wand.
Spells are the every-purpose tools of a wizard. They are generally short bursts of magic used to accomplish a specialised task, such as creating fire or unlocking a door. Casting a spell usually requires the movement of a wand and the uttering of an incantation. The language of the incantations in the Harry Potter novels has been described as modified Latin. Although wizards in the novels almost always use a wand for casting spells, Rowling has used the Wizarding World website to describe certain wizarding cultures that practise magic without a wand.

Geography

The wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe is embedded within the Muggle world. Wizards often live in magical enclaves within Muggle villages, such as Godric's Hollow in the West Country. Many wizarding homes in Harry Potter are depicted as being on the outskirts of a Muggle town. Only one settlement in Britain, the village of Hogsmeade, is home to an entirely magical population.
The wizarding high street of central London, Diagon Alley, lies just off Charing Cross Road. The Hogwarts Express train departs from King's Cross station using the fictional Platform 9¾. Magical locations are hidden by a combination of Muggle-repelling charms, illusions, and other protections. Some magical locations, such as the prison Azkaban and the stadium used for the Quidditch World Cup, are rendered "unplottable", meaning they are impossible to locate on a map. The castle of Hogwarts appears as abandoned ruins to any Muggle close enough to see.

Blood purity

Some characters in the Harry Potter franchise refer to wizard families with ancestry that never inter-married with Muggles as "Pureblood." The term is used by villainous characters such as Voldemort and Malfoy with a connotation of superiority. In contrast, a witch or wizard who was descended from non-magical people, such as Hermione Granger, is pejoratively referred to as a "Mudblood" by such characters.
"Half-blood" is the term applied to wizards who have both magical and Muggle ancestry. Half-blood is the most common blood status, outnumbering pure-bloods and Muggle-borns. Rowling has stated that no bloodline is truly "pure," but those who wish to claim purity deny the existence of Muggles and squibs in their ancestry.
"Squib" is the term applied to a person who is born to magical parents, but has no magical abilities. Such characters include Argus Filch and Arabella Figg.
Some wizards are the offspring of unions between humans and magical creatures. Examples include the sisters Fleur and Gabrielle Delacour, who are granddaughters of a veela; Rubeus Hagrid, who is half-giant; and Filius Flitwick, who has goblin ancestry.

Dark Arts
The Dark Arts are magical spells and practices that are usually used for malicious purposes. Practitioners of the Dark Arts are referred to as Dark wizards such as Voldemort and his followers, the Death Eaters. The type of spells characteristic of the Dark Arts are known as curses, which usually cause harm to the target. In the wizarding world, use of the Dark Arts is strongly stigmatised and certain spells are illegal. Hogwarts and other schools instruct students in Defence Against the Dark Arts. Some schools, such as Durmstrang, teach Dark magic. While Hogwarts is under Death Eaters' control, a Dark Arts class is taught.
Three "Unforgivable Curses" are introduced in Harry Potter, which are punishable by a life sentence in Azkaban prison. These are the "Killing Curse" (avada kedavra) causing immediate death, the "Cruciatus Curse" (crucio) causing intense pain, and the "Imperius Curse" (imperio) used for mind control or hypnosis.

Death
In Goblet of Fire, Albus Dumbledore tells Harry and Sirius Black that magic cannot truly and permanently bring dead individuals back to life. However, there are methods of communicating with the dead in a limited way. For example, all Hogwarts headmasters appear in a magical portrait when they die, which allows future generations to consult with them. However, the portrait is a reflection of who the wizard was, and is not a link to their spirit. The Resurrection Stone allows the bearer to speak with the dead, but it cannot bring the dead back into the living world.
Likewise, it is not possible to make oneself immortal unless one uses an object of great power to sustain life, such as the Philosopher's Stone or a Horcrux. If one were to possess the three Deathly Hallows, it is fabled that they would possess the tools to become the "master of death". Other methods of extending life include drinking unicorn blood, which will keep a person alive even if death is imminent, but at the price of being cursed forever. Being magical can contribute to one's longevity, as there are several characters in the series who are unusually long-lived. It is revealed by Nearly Headless Nick in the fifth novel that all wizards have the choice of becoming ghosts upon dying; however, it is described as "a pale imitation of life". Rowling has stated that death is the most important theme in the novels.

Magical creatures

The Harry Potter universe is home to many magical creatures. Some are derived from real-world folklore and mythology, while others were created by Rowling. Some are modified versions of creatures from real-world lore. A few of the creatures featured in the series include:

Acromantula — A gigantic spider that is capable of human speech. The acromantula is an invention of Rowling.
Basilisk — A giant snake-like reptile, originating in European classical mythology. In the Harry Potter universe, a person or animal will die if they make direct eye contact with a basilisk, but will be merely petrified (immobilized) if they make indirect eye contact, such as through a mirror.
Centaur — A mythical creature, originating in Greek mythology, with a head and torso resembling those of a human, and with a lower body resembling that of a horse. Centaurs live in forests and are skilled in healing and astrology. Centaurs who associate with humans are often seen as traitors to their kind.
Dementor — A tall, skeletal, black-cloaked creature that drains happiness from people and forces them to relive their worst memories. They can suck a person's soul out through their mouth, which is known as the "Dementor's Kiss". The dementor is an original creation of Rowling.
Giant — A humanoid creature commonly found in all folklore around the globe. In the Harry Potter world, giants have considerable immunity to magical attacks. They can interbreed with humans, but wizards have actively driven them out of civilisation.
Goblin — A short and stocky humanoid with black eyes, a domed head and long fingers, originating in European mythology. Goblins run Gringotts Bank and speak a language known as Gobbledegook.
Hippogriff — A mythical creature that is part-eagle, part-horse. Wizards can own hippogriffs provided they cast a daily Disillusionment Charm on them.
House-elf — A type of short, skinny, intensely magical humanoid based on the brownie / broonie of Scottish folklore. Witches and wizards enslave house-elves and they wear discarded items such as pillowcases as part of their servitude, and are freed by being given an item of clothing.
Thestral — A carnivorous species of winged horse visible only to those who have experienced loss through death. They are described as having dragon-like faces, blank white eyes, large leathery wings and a black coat which clings to their almost-skeletal bodies. Hogwarts has a semi-tamed herd of thestrals, which pull the carriages that transport students to the castle. Thestrals can be ridden by wizards. The thestral is an original creation of Rowling.
Veela — A nymph / fairy, originating in Slavic folklore, that sometimes resembles an exceptionally beautiful woman, and sometimes resembles a harpy. Veela are known for having the power to bewitch and enchant men.
Werewolf — A cursed human who transforms into a wolf-like creature during the full moon. The person has no control over the process and cannot choose whether or not it occurs. The werewolves in Harry Potter are derived from those found in real-world folklore.

Organisations
The Ministry of Magic is the government of the British wizarding community. The Minister for Magic, Cornelius Fudge, first appears in Chamber of Secrets. The Ministry of Magic is located in London and can be accessed by apparating, Floo travel or by a certain broken-down telephone box.
Young wizards in Britain usually attend Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Following completion of a Hogwarts education, there is no standard tertiary education, and there are no known wizard universities. Successful Hogwarts students are considered ready to function as adults, though some wizarding professions require special training programmes after Hogwarts. These include the professions of the Auror and the Healer. In addition to Hogwarts, the novels mention the French wizarding school Beauxbatons and the Northern European school Durmstrang. In 2016, Rowling created four additional schools and described them on the Wizarding World website. These four schools are Ilvermorny (United States), Castelobruxo (Brazil), Mahoutokoro (Japan) and Uagadou (Africa).

Communication
Wizards use owls to deliver mail, newspapers and parcels. The novels do not explain how an owl locates a recipient.
Characters painted into magical portraits can carry messages between locations where their portraits hang. For example, the former Hogwarts headmaster Phineas Nigellus travels between Dumbledore's office and his other portrait in Grimmauld Place.
Voldemort communicates with his underlings through the "Dark Mark", a brand that can be made to hurt remotely, signalling them to return to Voldemort.
Another form of closed communication used in the books and films is a set of mirrors that belonged to Sirius Black. Sirius gives Harry one mirror in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, with a note explaining to Harry that Sirius and James Potter used to use the mirrors to talk to each other when they were put in separate detentions. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Harry uses a shard of his broken mirror to call for help.

Transportation

Apparition
Apparating is disappearing from a place and appearing almost instantly in another. Wizards and witches often Apparate to their destinations, which is quite similar to teleportation. It is quite difficult to Apparate; therefore underage wizards and witches are forbidden to do it. There are many examples of failed Apparition attempts made by people who have not passed their "Apparition test", which is like a Muggle driving test. If not Apparating correctly, a person may lose a body part in the process, referred to as "splinching". In Deathly Hallows, Ron gets splinched after being grabbed by Yaxley, a Death Eater.

Other objects
The Harry Potter series features the "Floo Network", a mass-transit system that allows its users to travel to places such as the Ministry of Magic. "Portkeys" are mundane-looking objects that instantly transport people who touch them.
Characters in the series make use of several magical devices and artefacts to transport themselves within the Wizarding World and to the Muggle world. Among the most common of these objects are broomsticks, the Floo Network (a network of fireplaces magically connected to one another), the Knight Bus, and the Hogwarts Express. Some characters have been known to enchant Muggle vehicles to have magical features, such as Arthur Weasley's Ford Anglia or Sirius Black's Flying Motorbike. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, a discussion is held around the politics of importing flying carpets.

Media

The Daily Prophet
The Daily Prophet is the most widely read daily newspaper in Britain's wizard community. Its journalistic integrity is lacking; it has been known to be more concerned about sales than about factual accuracy and is often a mouthpiece for the Ministry of Magic. As described by Rita Skeeter, "The Prophet exists to sell itself!"
The Prophet remains respectable for the first three books, but by Goblet of Fire, it has hired Rita Skeeter, an unscrupulous journalist who supplies several thrilling and blatantly false articles. When Minister Fudge takes the stance of firmly denying Voldemort's return, the Prophet initiates a smear campaign against Dumbledore and Harry, the most influential proponents of the opposing view. After Fudge is forced to admit that Voldemort has returned, the Prophet changes its stance overnight, calling Harry "a lone voice of truth".
According to Rowling, Ginny Weasley becomes Senior Quidditch correspondent at the Prophet after the events of the novels.

The Quibbler
The Quibbler is a magazine first mentioned in Order of the Phoenix. It is edited by Xenophilius Lovegood and often prints articles about conspiracy theories and cryptozoology. In Order of the Phoenix, Hermione blackmails Rita Skeeter into writing an article about Harry's encounter with Voldemort. The interview is published by Xenophilius, and he later sells it to the Daily Prophet.

Food and leisure

Butterbeer
Butterbeer is a drink popular with young wizards. It can be served cold or hot, but either way it has a warming effect. Rowling said she imagines it tastes like "less-sickly" butterscotch. Even though it has very little alcohol, it is very strong for house elves, as Winky ended up developing an addiction for it after Barty Crouch Sr. sacked her. The Wizarding World of Harry Potter themed area at the Universal Orlando resort sells a line of food and beverages inspired by Butterbeer, and the Jelly Belly candy company has produced Butterbeer-inspired sweets. The celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal created a version of the drink for his show "Heston's Tudor Feast".

Magical sweets
Many types of magical sweets are mentioned in the series. Some have bizarre side effects, particularly those created by Fred and George Weasley. Chocolate Frogs are packaged with collectible cards depicting famous wizards. According to Rowling, Harry and his friends are featured on Chocolate Frog cards after the events of the novels. Both Chocolate Frogs and Bertie Bott's Every-Flavour Beans have been manufactured in the real world. The Bertie Bott's Beans produced by Jelly Belly include flavours such as black pepper, dirt, earwax, grass, sausage, soap, and vomit. The Hershey company has also produced various candy items based on Harry Potter.

Quidditch

The most prominent sport in the Harry Potter universe is Quidditch, which is a team sport played up in the air on broomsticks. Every House at Hogwarts has a Quidditch team and competes in the Quidditch Cup. Outside of Hogwarts, the Quidditch World Cup is a major international event that draws teams and spectators from countries around the world.

Wizard's Chess
Wizard's Chess is a version of chess played with pieces that are magically animated. In Philosopher's Stone, Harry, Ron and Hermione become human chess pieces in a life-sized game of Wizard's Chess, which Harry wins thanks to Ron's skill at the game.


================================================================================

# Fred and George Weasley

Fred and George Weasley are fictional characters in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. They are identical twin brothers of the Weasley family, which also includes Ron Weasley and Ginny Weasley. Fred and George are friends of Harry Potter, members of the Order of the Phoenix, and founders of the joke shop Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes. They are portrayed by the identical twins James and Oliver Phelps in the Harry Potter films.

Character biography
Fred and George are identical twin sons of Arthur and Molly Weasley, the younger brothers of Bill, Charlie, and Percy, and the older brothers of Ron and Ginny, who are both members of Harry Potter's close group of friends. The twins revel in practical jokes and pranks, often acting as comic relief.
While their best friend is Lee Jordan – their classmate, dormmate, and fellow prankster – the twins are also good friends with Harry, having played Quidditch with him for Gryffindor. They are less friendly with Percy, whom they love to torment for being a model student. Like the other Weasleys, they have flaming red hair and are described as being on the shorter, stockier side like their second older brother Charlie.

Appearances

Novels
Fred and George are introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) when they meet Harry Potter at King's Cross station. They are two years ahead of Harry, Ron, and Hermione Granger. They are the school clowns and troublemakers, more interested in inventing new pranks than studying. Despite their unimpressive academic record, they show a high degree of knowledge and skill in creating magical jokes and tricks. Both play as Beaters on the Gryffindor Quidditch team and are very talented players.
Fred and George care little for Prefects or rules, which contributes in their eventual falling out with their older brother Percy. Their appearances and personalities are so indistinguishable that they can fool even their mother. Fred appears slightly more aggressive/take-charge than George, which is most apparent in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire where George is more cautious about blackmailing Ludo Bagman and, unlike Fred, is not mentioned as having a date at the Yule Ball.
In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Fred and George begin selling their own jokes by owl order, under the name "Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes."
One of their primary ambitions is to run their own joke shop. Harry makes this possible by giving them his winnings from the Triwizard Tournament. In return, in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, they allow Harry to take anything from their joke shop for free while asking Ron to pay for the items in his arms.
The pair provide Harry with useful assistance throughout the series; in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets they and Ron help him escape his house arrest at Privet Drive. In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban they give him the Marauder's Map. In Goblet of Fire, they try to encourage Harry and Ron to find dates to the Yule Ball by letting them see Fred ask Angelina Johnson. They also help Harry in Order of the Phoenix when Harry wishes to talk with his godfather, Sirius Black, by creating a distraction, leaving Hogwarts in a state of chaos. They were also members of Dumbledore's Army, a group started by Harry, Ron, and Hermione to teach practical instruction in Defence Against the Dark Arts, which Umbridge had removed from that course's curriculum.
Later that year, they are banned from Quidditch and decide to abandon formal education; before leaving, though, they pay tribute to Dumbledore by waging a prank war against the dictatorial Dolores Umbridge.
It is stated by several characters, including Professor Flitwick and Hermione, that despite their poor grades, the Weasley twins are extremely proficient wizards, capable of sophisticated magic. This is evidenced by the large number of inventions they have created and by Fred's ability to transform Ron's teddy bear into a spider even before he was old enough to attend Hogwarts.

After Hogwarts
As they leave, the twins inform their fellow students of their new shop in Diagon Alley and offer discounts to students who will likewise harass Umbridge. The swamp, meanwhile, remains for some time, since Umbridge is unable to remove it and no other teacher particularly wishes to. After Professor Umbridge is driven from the school, Professor Flitwick removes it, but leaves a small bit as a tribute to the Weasley twins.
In The Half-Blood Prince, Fred and George continue to run their very successful joke shop, Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, out of Diagon Alley. Though Mrs. Weasley initially disapproves of their enterprises, she realises they have a natural gift and passion for their business and has since raised no objections. In fact, she is now rather impressed with how successful the twins have become since leaving school.

Deathly Hallows
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Fred and George are members of the Order of the Phoenix and serve as two of Harry's six decoys when he escapes Privet Drive. George loses one of his ears to Snape's Sectumsempra curse (which was aimed at a Death Eater's wand hand, but missed).
During this novel, every member of the Weasley family is being watched by the Ministry of Magic (now led by Death Eaters). It is impossible for Fred and George to return to their shop in Diagon Alley to sell their products, so they begin to run another owl-order business out of their Auntie Muriel's house.
During the Battle of Hogwarts, Fred is killed in an explosion. Before his death, Fred reconciles with his estranged brother Percy, who arrives at Hogwarts to participate in the fight and apologises to the family for not believing them. Percy, who was right next to him, was distraught, and refused to leave Fred's body. Fred died with a smile frozen on his face, as moments before death he was laughing at Percy for making a rare joke.
There are only two mentions of George after this. The first comes when Harry sees that the dead have been laid out in a row in the Great Hall. He can't see Fred's body, because he is surrounded by his family. George is only briefly described as kneeling at his twin's head. The second mention is when George and Lee Jordan defeat the Death Eater Yaxley.
According to Rowling, she always knew, intuitively, that Fred would die, but she does not know why. Although not mentioned in the novel, Rowling said in a web chat that George never does fully get over Fred's death. However, he goes on with his life, turning Weasleys' Wizarding Wheezes into a "money spinner" with Ron. George later names his first child with Angelina Johnson after his twin.

Personality
Throughout the series, the twins are portrayed as troublemakers. However, as the twins explain to Hermione in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, they do avoid getting in serious trouble, pointing out that, despite all their rule-breaking, they have never been kicked out of school. "We've always known where to draw the line," says Fred. "We might have put a toe across it occasionally," adds George. When Dumbledore is forced out of Hogwarts, they decide to cause real mayhem for the new headmistress, the hated Dolores Umbridge, something that they had always stopped short of before, for example by creating swamps in the corridors and setting off fireworks that multiply. Before they can be punished, they summon their brooms and depart the school for good, an act that would later come to be known as "pulling a Weasley", often said by unhappy students who were ready to leave school as well.
The twins display a genuine loyalty to Harry, Ron, and Hermione, generosity to strangers, and a protective nature. George was the first Weasley to befriend Harry (not yet realizing he was the famous Harry Potter). In Chamber of Secrets, Malfoy calls Hermione a "Mudblood" and the twins get worked up at this vulgarity; they jump to her defense. When Harry is unable to go on Hogsmeade trips in Prisoner of Azkaban, they give him the Marauder's Map and show him a secret passage out of the castle so he can participate in the trips with his friends. In Half-Blood Prince, the twins show up in Hogsmeade to surprise Ron on his seventeenth birthday. After Ron had been accidentally poisoned that morning, the twins show genuine concern and worry for him. They deliver his birthday gifts at his bedside as he sits in the hospital wing recovering.
Rowling stated that George "was the quieter of the two", while she described Fred as "the ringleader, crueler and funnier twin."

Portrayal in film
In the Harry Potter film adaptations, Fred and George are played by twins James and Oliver Phelps, respectively. Unlike the characters in the novels, the Phelpses are tall and lanky. The actors are not natural redheads and had their hair dyed for the films.
During the filming of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2, the scene where George mourns the death of Fred was only able to be shot twice, as the filming was emotionally draining for George's portrayer Oliver to imagine that his own brother had passed. Fred's portrayer James however, found the scene to be "the easiest day of work" and fell asleep during shooting of the scene, missing his lunch break.

Reception
The entertainment website IGN has referred to Fred and George as "the kind of older brothers that we all would have wanted to grow up with." In an article about Fred's death, Mashable called him a fan-favourite character. The death of Fred in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows was the first death author J.K. Rowling apologised for, stating that his death was the worst for her personally. Ever since apologising for the death of the character, Rowling has made an annual tradition of apologising to the fans of the series for the deaths of their favourite characters on the fictitious anniversary of the Battle of Hogwarts. To date, Rowling has apologised for the deaths of Remus Lupin, Severus Snape, Dobby the House Elf and Sirius Black, along with Fred's.


================================================================================

# Genius (American TV series)

Genius is an American biographical anthology drama series developed by Noah Pink and Kenneth Biller which premiered on National Geographic. The first season, which aired between April and June 2017, followed the life of Albert Einstein, from his early years, through his time as a patent clerk, and into his later years as a physicist who developed the theory of relativity; the season is based on the 2007 book Einstein: His Life and Universe by Walter Isaacson. The second season, which aired between April and June 2018, followed the life and artistry of Pablo Picasso.
In April 2018, National Geographic renewed the series for a third season. The season was originally supposed to focus on Mary Shelley, but this was changed during development to instead focus on Aretha Franklin. It aired in March 2021. In December 2020, the series was renewed for a fourth season to be released on National Geographic and Disney+. The fourth season follows the lives of Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X and premiered on February 1, 2024.

Throughout the years the series received several nominations and accolades, including two Primetime Emmy Awards and an NAACP Image Awards.

Synopsis
The first season chronicles two periods in the life of Albert Einstein: the first as a patent clerk struggling to gain a teaching position and doctorate, the second as a scientist respected for his development of the theory of relativity.
The second season chronicles two periods in the life of Pablo Picasso: the first as a young man discovering his talent, the second as a celebrated artist struggling with the rise of fascism and the price of fame.
The third season chronicles two periods in the life of Aretha Franklin: the first as a young gospel singer impregnated at the age of twelve, the second as a rising star.
The fourth season chronicles the lives of Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X.

Cast and characters

Season 1

Main

Recurring

Season 2

Main

Recurring

Season 3

Main

Recurring

Season 4

Main

Recurring

Episodes

Season 1: Einstein (2017)

Season 2: Picasso (2018)

Season 3: Aretha (2021)

Season 4: MLK/X (2024)

Production

Development
On April 28, 2016, it was announced that National Geographic had given the production a straight-to-series order, its first ever scripted series. The series was set to be based on the biography Einstein: His Life and Universe by Walter Isaacson and adapted by Noah Pink, who was also expected to co-executive produce. Executive producers were announced to include Brian Grazer, Ron Howard, Francie Calfo, Gigi Pritzker, Rachel Shane, Sam Sokolow, and Jeffrey Cooney. Anna Culp was set to co-produce alongside Melissa Rucker. Ron Howard was expected to direct the first episode of the series. Production companies involved with the series were set to include Imagine TV, Fox 21 TV Studios, OddLot Entertainment and EUE/Sokolow.
On April 19, 2017, National Geographic renewed the series for a second season. The subject of the second season was to have been announced during the finale of the first season, but was instead revealed to be Pablo Picasso the day after the finale, when the network and producers did not want to divert attention away from the season finale. The second season premiered on April 24, 2018.
On April 18, 2018, National Geographic renewed the series for a third season. The season was initially set to follow the life of writer Mary Shelley. Ken Biller is expected to return as showrunner, executive producer and writer. Also returning are executive producers Brian Grazer, Ron Howard, Francie Calfo, Jeff Cooney, Sam Sokolow, Gigi Pritzker, and Rachel Shane. Anna Culp will return as producer. Returning production companies include Imagine TV, MWM Studios, and EUE/Sokolow. On February 10, 2019, it was announced that the subject of the third season would instead be American singer Aretha Franklin, known as "The Queen of Soul". The third season was slated to premiere on May 25, 2020, and air over four consecutive nights, but was delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic and began airing on March 21, 2021.
On December 10, 2020, the series was renewed for a fourth season, which focused on the lives of Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X.

Casting

Season 1
In August 2016, it was announced that Geoffrey Rush and Johnny Flynn would star in the series as Albert Einstein both as an old man and as a young adult, respectively. Additionally, it was reported that Emily Watson would also star in the series and that Michael McElhatton, Seth Gabel, Samantha Colley, Richard Topol, and Vincent Kartheiser had joined the cast. In November 2016, it was announced that Shannon Tarbet, Claire Rushbrook, and Robert Lindsay had been cast in recurring roles. On February 2, 2017, it was reported that T. R. Knight had been cast in the recurring role of J. Edgar Hoover.

Season 2
On September 6, 2017, it was announced that Antonio Banderas would star in the second season as Pablo Picasso. On November 2, 2017, it was reported that Alex Rich would co-star in the series sharing the lead role of Picasso. It was further reported that Clémence Poésy, Robert Sheehan, Poppy Delevingne, Aisling Franciosi, and Sebastian Roché also joined the cast and that Samantha Colley, T. R. Knight, Seth Gabel, and Johnny Flynn were returning from season one in new roles.

Season 3
On October 3, 2019, Cynthia Erivo was cast to play Aretha Franklin.

Season 4
In September 2022, the cast was announced, with Kelvin Harrison Jr. and Aaron Pierre set to star as Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X respectively, while Weruche Opia was cast as Coretta Scott King and Jayme Lawson as Betty Shabazz. In November, Ron Cephas Jones, Gary Carr and Hubert Point-Du Jour were added to the main cast for the season, with Lennie James, LisaGay Hamilton, Ashley Romans, Donal Logue and Griffin Matthews joining in recurring roles. Jalyn Hall was cast as a younger Martin Luther King Jr. in December.

Filming
Principal photography for season one took place in mid-2016 in Prague. Filming for season two began in November 2017 in Málaga and was expected to take place for over five months in various cities around the world, including Barcelona, Paris, and Budapest. Filming for the third season was set to commence in November 2019, for an early-2020 release. In March 2020, the production was shelved due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The series resumed production on October 1, 2020.

Music
Most of Franklin's music in season three was recorded by Erivo. However, the producers were unable to obtain the rights to use Franklin's biggest songs, "Respect" and "(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman".

Reception

Critical reception

Season 1
The first season received mostly positive reviews. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the series has an approval rating of 84%, based on 31 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Buoyed by a superb performance from Geoffrey Rush, Genius is a compelling origin story of one of history's most renowned scientists." On Metacritic, the season had a score of 65 out of 100, based on 20 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
Science columnist Dennis Overbye of The New York Times described the series as a "tense binge-worthy psychological thriller full of political and romantic melodrama." Overbye further noted that Einstein himself, writing to his sister, wrote, "If everybody lived a life like mine, there would be no need for novels." According to Hillary Busis of Vanity Fair, the film shows, "... Einstein at work ... peers into the über-genius's tumultuous love life (monogamy, he believes, is "not natural") ... his fraught emigration to the United States ...". Busis quotes producer Ron Howard: "When you move past his scientific contributions, Albert's life story—what his youth was like, who his friends were, who his enemies were, his tumultuous love life—is a story people don't know ... I think audiences are going to be riveted as we tell this ambitious and revealing human story behind Einstein's scientific brilliance."

Season 2
The second season received mixed reviews, but garnered praise for its star, Antonio Banderas. Rotten Tomatoes gave an approval rating of 57%, based on 23 reviews. Its critical consensus reads: "An impressive performance from Antonio Banderas rescues Genius: Picasso from condensed melodrama." On Metacritic, the season had a score of 52 out of 100, based on 10 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews".

Season 3
The third season received mainly positive reviews. Rotten Tomatoes gave an approval rating of 71% based on 34 reviews. The critical consensus reads: "Cynthia Erivo captures the spirit of the singular singer with poise and passion - if only Aretha's writing were as strong as her performance." On Metacritic, the season had a score of 67 out of 100, based on 10 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

Reaction from Franklin's family
Despite positive reception of season 3, Aretha Franklin's family never reacted kindly to the season, claiming they "weren't consulted in any part of the production, despite the crew's insistence that they worked with Franklin's estate".

Season 4
The fourth season received mainly positive reviews. Rotten Tomatoes gave an approval rating of 75% based on 12 reviews. The critical consensus reads: "Sporting a good pair of starring performances, Genius'  fourth season can't quite capture the legacies of its two civil rights icons but delivers a sturdy recreation of their personal lives."

Accolades


================================================================================

# Ginny Weasley

Ginevra "Ginny" Weasley is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. She is introduced in the first novel, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, as the youngest child and only daughter of Arthur and Molly Weasley. She becomes romantically involved with Harry Potter and eventually marries him. Ginny is portrayed by Bonnie Wright in all eight Harry Potter films, while in the upcoming Harry Potter television series she will be portrayed by Gracie Cochrane in the first season, and by Bonnie Hill in the second season.

Creation and development
In a 2005 interview, Rowling said Ginny is terrified of Harry when she first meets him, because she perceives him as a "rock god". Rowling hoped readers would gradually discover, over the course of the series, that Ginny is "pretty much the ideal girl for Harry". Rowling described Ginny as tough, gutsy, warm, compassionate and funny, and said these are qualities that Harry needs in his ideal woman. She said Harry requires a romantic partner who can "stand the demands of being with Harry Potter, because he's a scary boyfriend ... He's a marked man." Rowling said Ginny had to experience "a big emotional journey" before she could begin a romance with Harry. In the sixth novel, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Rowling attempted to depict Ginny and Harry as "total equals" and "worthy of each other". Rowling also described Ginny as a "gifted witch".

Appearances

Novels
Ginny is introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) when Harry Potter encounters the Weasley family at King's Cross station. She is ten years old at this time. When Ginny realizes who Harry is, she wants to board the Hogwarts Express to see him, but her mother will not allow it.
Ginny begins her first year at the wizard school Hogwarts in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998). She joins Gryffindor House and develops a crush on Harry. On Valentine's day, she sends a singing Valentine to him "inconspicuously". As the plot advances, Harry and Ginny's brother Ron notice that she is acting strangely. At first, they assume she is simply disturbed by the attacks on Muggle-born students at Hogwarts, but soon suspect that she may know something about the attacks. They question her, but she refuses to speak. They eventually discover that she opened the Chamber of Secrets and was commanding a Basilisk to assault students (not knowing she started the attacks), while under the influence of Tom Riddle's school diary. Harry finds Ginny, saves her from Riddle, and destroys the diary with the basilk's poisoned tooth that was in his arm.
Ginny returns in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999). She is a second-year student at Hogwarts, and is present when Harry is attacked by Dementors on the Hogwarts Express. During the course of the novel, she develops a closer relationship with Hermione Granger, one of Harry's best friends.
In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), Ginny attends the Quidditch World Cup with her father, brothers, Harry, and Hermione. She accompanies Neville Longbottom to the Yule Ball at Hogwarts.
Ginny has a boyfriend named Michael Corner in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003), but she eventually breaks up with him and begins dating Dean Thomas. When Dolores Umbridge bans Harry from the Quidditch team, Ginny replaces him as the Gryffindor Seeker. She joins the secret group Dumbledore's Army and accompanies Harry to the Department of Mysteries as he attempts to rescue Sirius Black. Ginny participates in a battle inside the Ministry of Magic, but retreats from the action after breaking her ankle.
In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005), Professor Slughorn invites Ginny to join his "Slug Club". Ginny becomes a permanent member of the Gryffindor Quidditch team as Chaser, and substitutes for Harry as Seeker when Professor Snape puts him in detention for using Sectumsempra on Draco Malfoy, forcing Harry to miss the final match of the season against Ravenclaw. Ginny's relationship with Dean ends, and she shares her first kiss with Harry after Gryffindor wins the Quidditch Cup. Ginny and Harry start a romantic relationship, but Harry ends it after several months, fearing that his closeness with her will put her in danger.
Near the beginning of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007), Ginny discovers that Harry, Ron and Hermione will be leaving on a quest to find Voldemort's remaining Horcruxes. She kisses Harry in her bedroom, (which Ron isn't too happy about,) and they realize they still have feelings for each other. Ginny begins her sixth year at Hogwarts, where she works with Neville and Luna Lovegood to rebuild Dumbledore's Army. She participates in the Battle of Hogwarts and is nearly struck with a Killing Curse from Bellatrix Lestrange. After this close call, Molly Weasley was outraged at this, and kills Bellatrix.
In the novel's epilogue, set nineteen years after the events of Deathly Hallows, Harry and Ginny are married and have three children: James, Albus and Lily. Rowling said that after leaving Hogwarts, Ginny joins the all-female Quidditch team Holyhead Harpies. After spending a few years as a celebrated player, she retires to become the senior Quidditch correspondent for the Daily Prophet.

Film adaptations
Ginny is portrayed by Bonnie Wright in all eight Harry Potter films. In an interview with The Telegraph, Wright said her brother encouraged her to audition because she reminded him of the character.

Television series
Ginny will be portrayed by Gracie Cochrane in the first season of the upcoming Harry Potter television series. In the second season, Ginny will be portrayed by Bonnie Hill.

Stage adaptions
In the play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child (2016), Ginny helps Harry reconcile with their son Albus Severus Potter. Her job at The Daily Prophet is briefly mentioned when Draco Malfoy accuses her of promoting suspicion against former Death Eaters. Poppy Miller portrayed Ginny in the original West End production of the play.

Video games
Ginny is voiced by Bonnie Wright in the Order of the Phoenix, Half-Blood Prince and Deathly Hallows – Part 1 video games. She is voiced by Victoire Robinson in the Chamber of Secrets game, and by Annabel Scholey in the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 game.

Characterisation
Ginny has the trademark Weasley red hair and freckled complexion. She is of petite stature and has bright brown eyes like her mother. She is brave, independent, loyal, intelligent, fierce, friendly, helpful and strong. She is popular with boys and is a gifted Quidditch player. She is also skilled with the Bat-Bogey Hex. In Deathly Hallows, Harry suggests that Ginny's toughness resulted from growing up with six brothers. The writer Christopher Bell claimed that youth and rage are two of Ginny's defining characteristics. He wrote that she has "a very short fuse" and a notorious temper that often expresses itself in childish ways.


================================================================================

# Hagrid

Rubeus Hagrid (), often known simply as Hagrid, is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. He was introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) as a half-giant who is the gamekeeper and groundskeeper at the wizarding school Hogwarts. He is a member of the Order of the Phoenix and eventually becomes the Care of Magical Creatures professor. Hagrid is portrayed by Robbie Coltrane in all eight Harry Potter films.

Creation and development
Rubeus Hagrid was one of the first characters Rowling created. In a 1999 interview, she explained that the name "Hagrid" is an Old English word derived from hagridden, meaning 'tormented by hags'. She said it means "you'd had a bad night" and she explained that Hagrid "has a lot of bad nights" due to his heavy drinking. In Latin, "Rubeus" means "red", and was chosen because Rowling conceived of Hagrid as an "earthy, warm, and physical man".
The character of Hagrid and conversations between him, Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in his hut are expository through the series, due to the fact that the trio frequently discover things about Albus Dumbledore and Hogwarts by talking with Hagrid, as he has a habit of letting slip bits of information that were specifically confided to him. He was also one of the first characters to imply that the idea of thinking of wizards as "pure-bloods" and "half-bloods" is a dated concept.
Rowling has stated in an interview that Hagrid was in Gryffindor house during his time as a student. When he comes into possession of an acromantula (Aragog), he is expelled from Hogwarts as his pet is believed to be the "monster of Slytherin". However, persuaded by Dumbledore (who at the time was the Transfiguration teacher), Headmaster Armando Dippet agrees to train Hagrid as gamekeeper, allowing the boy to remain at Hogwarts. By the time Harry attends Hogwarts, Hagrid is also the Keeper of Keys and Grounds; the former, according to Rowling, means "that he will let you in and out of Hogwarts." Part of his job includes leading the first years across the lake in boats, upon their initial arrival at Hogwarts.
When discussing the killing off of characters in her books, Rowling said that she always knew she was "working towards the point where Hagrid carried Harry out alive – but supposedly dead – out of the forest". She said she had planned from very early on that Harry would walk to his death accompanied by the 'ghosts', and that "he would emerge in Hagrid's arms". In her own words, "that's what always kept Hagrid safe". She said "Hagrid would have been a natural to kill in some ways", but that the mental image of this moment – a big fatherly Hagrid carrying the limp Harry in his arms – was so strong it decided his fate. Although some fans were afraid that Hagrid would die in the final novel, Rowling had always planned for him to survive. She also liked the circular notion of Hagrid both bringing Harry into the world, and then bringing him back from the dead. During an interview in 2007, when asked if Hagrid did marry, Rowling answered that Hagrid developed a relationship with a giantess, but it did not work out.

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Hagrid is introduced in the opening chapter of the first novel, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997). Following the murder of James and Lily Potter by Lord Voldemort, Albus Dumbledore entrusts Hagrid with the infant Harry Potter, who survived Voldemort's attack. Ten years later, Hagrid brings the Philosopher's Stone from Gringotts Wizarding Bank to Hogwarts, where it is guarded by an enormous three-headed dog named Fluffy. Dumbledore also gives Hagrid the task of locating Harry and helping him buy school supplies for his first year at Hogwarts.
Later in the novel, a hooded person—Professor Quirinus Quirrell in disguise—gives Hagrid a dragon egg in exchange for details about Fluffy. Harry and his friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger are also curious about Fluffy, and Hagrid lets slip that the way to get past him is to play music. When Harry and his friends  decide to seek the Philosopher's Stone, they soothe Fluffy to sleep with a flute which Hagrid carved for Harry. When the dragon egg hatches, the three friends assist Hagrid by helping to remove the baby dragon Norbert, who is taken to a dragon sanctuary in Romania.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Hagrid returns in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998). The novel reveals that Hagrid was a student at Hogwarts at the same time as Tom Riddle, the wizard who later became Voldemort. Hagrid was expelled after being caught in the company of Aragog, a gigantic spider. It was believed that Aragog was responsible for mysterious attacks upon students, and that Hagrid had released him from the Chamber of Secrets. The belief of Hagrid's guilt was encouraged by Riddle, the actual criminal, who had been using a different monster—a Basilisk—to assault students. In Chamber of Secrets, the Basilisk is unleashed again and Hagrid, seemingly guilty once more, is sent to the wizard prison Azkaban. Before being arrested, Hagrid tells Harry and Ron to follow spiders into the Forbidden Forest so they can meet Aragog and discover the truth about the monster. After Harry defeats the Basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets, Hagrid is freed from prison.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Hagrid becomes the Care of Magical Creatures professor at Hogwarts in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999). He was cleared of wrongdoing after the events of the previous novel, and is now allowed to perform magic. During his first class, he introduces Buckbeak and other hippogriffs to the students. After Draco Malfoy provokes Buckbeak, the hippogriff attacks him. As a result, the Ministry of Magic sentences Buckbeak to death. Near the end of the book, Hermione and Harry use a Time-Turner to save Buckbeak from execution.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), it is revealed that Hagrid is a half-giant. His mother was the giantess Fridwulfa, and his father was a human wizard. Hagrid's parentage is exposed in the Daily Prophet newspaper by the tabloid journalist Rita Skeeter, who portrays Hagrid as dangerous and incompetent. Hagrid is deeply affected by her article and attempts to resign from his position, but Dumbledore will not accept his resignation. During the course of the novel, Hagrid develops a romantic interest in Olympe Maxime, the towering headmistress of the French wizarding school Beauxbatons.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Hagrid is absent during the first part of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003). He later reveals to Harry, Ron and Hermione that he and Madame Maxime travelled across Europe together on a mission to find giants and convince them to ally themselves with Dumbledore. However, Death Eaters managed to bring the giants to Voldemort's side. Hagrid was attacked by giants during the mission, and saved by Maxime. During the journey, Maxime became exasperated with Grawp, Hagrid's giant half-brother whom he was attempting to bring with them. Hagrid introduces Grawp to Harry and Hermione, and asks them to supervise him when Hagrid leaves Hogwarts. During the course of the novel, the High Inquisitor of Hogwarts Dolores Umbridge supervises classes and seeks an excuse to fire Hagrid. Eventually, Umbridge and other Ministry of Magic officials attempt to arrest him, but he manages to escape. He is later reinstated as a professor.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry, Ron, and Hermione are no longer Care of Magical Creatures students in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005). Hagrid is both angry and disappointed, but he realises that it is not because they do not like him. When Aragog dies, Hagrid gives the spider a proper funeral. Afterwards, Hagrid and Professor Horace Slughorn drink large quantities of Firewhisky, which allows Harry the opportunity to retrieve an important memory from Slughorn. Towards the end of the novel, Death Eaters attack Hogwarts and set fire to Hagrid's hut as he tries to fight them.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007), Hagrid is part of the Order of the Phoenix delegation assigned to transport Harry to the Burrow. Hagrid takes Harry on his flying motorcycle, but the journey goes awry when the delegation is ambushed by Death Eaters. Hagrid and Harry manage to arrive at the Burrow after being attacked by Voldemort himself. When the Death Eaters take over Hogwarts, Hagrid is driven into hiding in the mountains. Later, during the Battle of Hogwarts, Hagrid is carried off by a swarm of spiders after attempting to protect them. He is later captured by Death Eaters and brought into the Forbidden Forest, where Harry intends to sacrifice himself to Voldemort. Harry seems to die at Voldemort's hand, and Hagrid carries his body back to Hogwarts. When Harry is revealed to be alive, Hagrid participates in the second part of the battle. He injures Walden Macnair, the executioner who nearly executed Buckbeak.
In the epilogue of Deathly Hallows, set nineteen years after Voldemort's death, Hagrid is still at Hogwarts. He invites Harry's son Albus Severus Potter to his hut for tea. According to Rowling, Hagrid acts as a guardian and guide for Harry throughout the series. She was planning for him to carry Harry to Hogwarts in Deathly Hallows before Philosopher's Stone was even published.

Portrayal in other media

Film

The Scottish actor Robbie Coltrane portrays Hagrid in all eight Harry Potter films. Rowling had wanted Coltrane for the role from the start. Robin Williams was interested in the part, but was rejected because the film series had a "British-only" cast policy. Coltrane had read the Harry Potter novels to his son and was already a fan of them. Rowling discussed Hagrid's past and future with Coltrane to help him prepare for the role. She commended him for his ability to portray both the loveable and comic side of Hagrid and the "toughness underneath". Coltrane said that being part of the Harry Potter franchise is "a fantastic thing".
Former English rugby union player Martin Bayfield portrayed Hagrid as a stunt performer in longer shots due to his large size to emphasise Hagrid's height. Bayfield also appeared as a young Hagrid in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.

Television
Hagrid is set to be portrayed by actor Nick Frost in the HBO television adaption of the Harry Potter series.

Characterisation

Outward appearance
In Philosopher's Stone, Hagrid is described as being twice as tall as the average man and nearly five times as wide (later novels call him three times as wide). In the film version of Philosopher's Stone, his height is 8 feet 6 inches (2.59 metres).

Personality
Hagrid has a friendly, softhearted personality and is easily driven to tears. He is very loyal to his peers, especially Dumbledore, to whom he refers as the greatest wizard in the world multiple times. As first seen in Philosopher's Stone, he becomes extremely angry whenever anyone insults Dumbledore around him (a mistake made by Vernon Dursley, who called Dumbledore a "crackpot old fool"). He is also very loyal to Harry, suffered several times during the series because of this loyalty, and had to go into hiding twice to avoid prison. Rowling says of Hagrid, "Hagrid was always supposed to be this almost elemental force. He's like the king of the forest, or the Green Man. He's this semi-wild person who lives on the edge of the forest".

Magical abilities and skills
Following his expulsion from Hogwarts, the Ministry of Magic broke Hagrid's oak wand and forbade him to perform magic. Hagrid keeps the pieces of his wand in a pink umbrella, and performs small spells from time to time; however, he was technically forbidden to do magic until the third book, and since he is not a fully qualified wizard, he "will always be a bit inept" as compared to other adult wizards, but "occasionally surprises everyone, himself included, by bringing off more impressive bits of magic". However, he is unable to produce a Patronus. He also has magical abilities that stem from his giant blood. For example, in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, many of the stunning spells thrown at him by Ministry officials simply bounce off him. Also, being half-giant gives Hagrid some level of superhuman strength, which allowed him to bend the barrel of a shotgun with one hand.
Being a half-giant, he is less vulnerable to jinxes and spells than full humans. In Order of the Phoenix, when Umbridge and some other wizards come to remove him from Hogwarts he fights back. They try to jinx and stun him, but the spells just bounce off him because of giant-inherited resistance to magic. Hagrid also shows this resilience at the end of Half-Blood Prince, during the chapter Flight of the Prince, withstanding a Death Eater's powerful curses. Some potions are also ineffective with him, such as Polyjuice Potion, which is designed for human-only use.

Analysis
In her article "Harry's Fame", Rosemary Goring notes the Forest of Dean is an influence on Rowling's work, and Hagrid is the only character that is "directly drawn from the Forest of Dean". According to Goring, Hagrid's "dropped word-endings are a Chepstow speciality." She also claims that Hagrid is physically "modeled on the Welsh chapter of Hells Angels who'd swoop down on the town and hog the bar, 'huge mountains of leather and hair".

In popular culture
In Alistair McGowan's Big Impression show, Hagrid appeared in a sketch called "Louis Potter and the Philosopher's Scone", in which he was portrayed by Robbie Coltrane himself. Hagrid is also parodied in Harry Potter and the Secret Chamberpot of Azerbaijan, a story released by Comic Relief in 2003, and he was played by Ronnie Corbett. Hagrid also appears in the parody stage production Harry Potter and the Obnoxious Voice, interacting with Draco Malfoy and a dementor.
Hagrid makes an appearance in the theme park attraction Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey at The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Orlando, Japan and Hollywood. A new rollercoaster, Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure, opened at Universal Orlando's Islands of Adventure theme park on 13 June 2019, replacing the Dragon Challenge dual roller coasters and is themed around Hagrid and his love for magical creatures.


================================================================================

# Harry and the Potters

Harry and the Potters are an American rock band known for spawning the genre of wizard rock. Founded in Norwood, Massachusetts, in 2002, the group is primarily composed of brothers Joe and Paul DeGeorge, both of whom perform under the persona of the title character from the Harry Potter book series. Harry and the Potters are known for their elaborate live performances, and have developed a cult following within the Harry Potter fandom.
The band is often backed up by musicians such as Ernie Kim, Andrew MacLeay, Brad Mehlenbacher, John Clardy, Mike Gintz, Jacob Nathan, Ben Macri, Phillip Dickey, Jason Anderson and Zach Burba. The band's most recent songs feature drummer Mike Harpring and bassist Paul Baribeau.
Since 2002, Harry and the Potters have released three studio albums, five extended plays, and a single. The duo founded the independent record label Eskimo Laboratories, and appeared in the documentary films We Are Wizards and Wizard Rockumentary. They also co-founded charity organization The Harry Potter Alliance, and formed the Wizard Rock EP of the Month Club, an extended play syndicate.

History

Formation (2002)
In Cambridge, Massachusetts, Paul DeGeorge was developing vaccines for a biotech firm as a chemical engineer. Paul had recently graduated from Tufts University. Outside the lab, Paul was a musician whose indie band—The Secrets—had toured in the northeast from 2001 to 2002. To promote his band, Paul co-founded a small indie label called Eskimo Laboratories. One of the other bands in Eskimo's stable of talent included an act called Ed in the Refridgerators  [sic], which was fronted by Paul's 14-year-old brother Joe. Joe DeGeorge was a student at Norwood High School. He and his school friend Andrew MacLeay (A.K.A. Shaggy) had been playing in rock bands together since they were 11 and 12 years old.
A couple of years earlier after reading the Harry Potter books, Paul formulated the premise for Harry and the Potters where the principal Harry Potter characters would be the musicians: Harry as the front man, Ron on guitar, Hermione on bass and Hagrid on drums. During a barbecue at the DeGeorge family's Norwood, Massachusetts home, on June 22, 2002, Joe organized a concert in his backyard featuring Ed and the Refridgerators, the Secrets, and Soltero. However, the latter two bands canceled the day of the event. To rescue a nearly lost opportunity, while waiting for a band to show, the two brothers wrote seven Potter-themed songs. They performed that first concert as Harry and the Potters for six people who remained of their audience. Of those seven backyard songs, five made it onto the band's first album in 2003.

Harry and the Potters and Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock! (2003–04)

After recruiting drummer Ernie Kim, the band recorded their eponymous debut album over a weekend in the DeGeorge family living room. Released in June 2003 under the Eskimo Laboratories record label, the album contains six of the seven songs composed on June 22, 2002, and another twelve written spontaneously and immediately thereafter recorded. In the summer of 2003, Harry and the Potters set out on an American tour, performing at libraries. The fifth Harry Potter book – Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – came out that summer and on June 21, 2003, the highly anticipated day of release, the band played five sets in a span of 24 hours. The library gigs drew crowds of mostly children and their parents. The brothers played a show at the library in Dorchester, Massachusetts, that August, where they noticed the children in the audience singing along. Joe said, "Paul forgot the words to one of the songs. [The kids] were like, 'You sang it wrong!'" Paul said, "They'd be like, 'Hey, why'd you skip that song?' because they knew the exact sequence of the album." The DeGeorge brothers quickly developed an onstage persona of dressing in the fashion of wizard-school Hogwarts: white shirts under gray crew-neck sweaters, red-and-yellow striped ties, and wire-rim glasses. Both brothers play the role of Harry Potter and dress almost identically; Paul is older and to conform to the character's persona, he is Harry of Year 7; while Joe is the Harry of Year 4.
During May and June 2004, the band worked on their next album, Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock!, in the DeGeorge family shed. Following the release, the band toured heavily. The two brothers drove 13,000 miles across the U.S. and into Canada in their "Potter Mobile", a silver 1998 Ford Windstar minivan with a black lightning bolt emblazoned on its hood. In live concerts, Paul and Joe used pre-recorded backing tracks for much of the tour, but during the second half, Joe called on his childhood friend and former bandmate Andrew MacLeay to join the band temporarily as drummer. During the Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock! tour, Paul and Joe DeGeorge received a letter from Warner Bros. that stated that the brothers were breaking copyright laws. Although Paul sent a letter to Warner Brothers in an attempt to smooth things over, Marc Brandon, the company representative, asked to speak to Paul personally. The two later settled upon a gentlemen's agreement that allowed Harry and the Potters to continue to sell music online and tour, but all other merchandise could only be sold at live shows.

Harry and the Potters and the Power of Love (2005–06)

The following winter, the band began their first overseas tour. In February 2005, they toured the United Kingdom – playing London, Manchester, Milton Keynes, Chester, and Liverpool – and then followed it by playing some gigs in the Netherlands to coincide with the release of the Dutch translation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince which took place in November 2005. In the Netherlands, they played one of their earliest songs "Platform Nine and 3/4" in Dutch. Pitchfork Media, a web-based music zine, hailed Harry and the Potters as having one of the best five live shows in 2005, quipping that "The Decemberists wish they could lit-rock like this." In the fall of 2005, Joe entered Clark University in Worcester, Massachusetts. While Harry and the Potters play infrequently at rock clubs and other venues—a Yule Ball at the Middle East Downstairs in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in December 2005 attracted an audience of 600 with 200 turned away at the door
The band continued its success and toured early in the year with a new wave 'sock puppet rock band' called Uncle Monsterface who opened for in March 2006. During the summer, they embarked on their third cross-country summer tour ("Summer Reading and Rocking Tour 2006"), this time accompanied by fellow wizard rock band Draco and the Malfoys. Brad Mehlenbacher from Draco and the Malfoys handled drumming duties for the Potters for the entirety of their summer tour. They returned to home recording with the Harry and the Potters and the Power of Love but with a bigger sound and with the assistance of recording veteran Kevin Micka. While in the earlier albums the band's musical style was goofy inept pop-punk, the EP Scarred for Life became musically darker reflecting the penultimate book, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, as it takes as its central conceit a Harry Potter who has started a hardcore rock band. Paul and Joe departed from their DIY home recording and sought a studio for Scarred for Life (as well as their split EP with the Zambonis), and consequently stated that the songs on the Scarred for Life are among their "most badass".

Extended plays and film appearances (2007–09)

By 2007, Harry and the Potters' fan based indie music genre of wizard rock had grown into an international phenomenon. The band engaged in charity side-projects and activism within the Harry Potter community. In January 2007, Harry and the Potters created the Wizard Rock EP of the Month Club, a mail order subscription club that released an extended play by a different wizard rock band each month. Reflecting wizard rock's literacy focus, the club raises funds for First Book, a non-profit organization that gives children the ability to read and own their first new books. In 2007, the Club raised over $13,000 for the organization. They released their first extended play The Enchanted Ceiling in 2007. May 2007 was also the beginning of their large 70-show summer-library tour across the US and Canada called simply "Summer Tour 2007". Like their initial year in 2003, the summer of 2007 saw the release of another Harry Potter book. Harry and the Potters scheduled the mid-point of the tour to arrive back in their home state and celebrate the July 21 midnight release of the seventh book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows at Harvard Yard. The festivities became a meet-up of a number of wizard rock bands including The Hungarian Horntails and their nemesis Draco and the Malfoys which all played to a large crowd of Harry Potter fans in the Cambridge, Massachusetts college venue. Harry and the Potters resumed their tour which finally wound-up in late August. In Vancouver on July 7, 2007, hundreds of people crowded outside the Vancouver Public Library to see Harry and the Potters. ABC News reported that the band usually charge $5 to $10 for tickets to their shows, though some performances are free. Harry and the Potters said 600 people turned out for a July 10, 2007 show in Portland, Oregon.
In summer 2008, Harry and the Potters undertook a summer tour, Unlimited Enthusiasm, with Math the Band, Uncle Monsterface and Jason Anderson. One of the stops in that tour was Nerdapalooza. That fall they released a short punk rock EP, In the Cupboard as part of the Wizard Rock EP of the Month Club. Two full-length feature film projects documenting Harry and the Potters and the wizard rock movement, We Are Wizards and The Wizard Rockumentary, were released in 2008.
The band played its 500th show in June 2009 at Norwood Elementary School (MA) the founding members' hometown. The group continued the Wizard Rock EP of the Month Club in 2009, and as a member of the club, they released their third extended play The Yule Ball EP, which featured a CD and a DVD of their performance at the Fourth Annual Yule Ball.

Further career and Lumos (2010–present)
In April 2010, the group announced a series of shows in the Midwestern United States, Scandinavia, and Ireland for July and August.
In Summer 2011, Harry and the Potters embarked on another summer tour entitled, Ride The Lightning. The tour was to the biggest since 2007, playing dates all throughout the United States. The first show was held May 25 in Portland, ME and the last show was July 31 at the Knitting Factory in New York. Drummer Jacob Nathan played with the group throughout the tour. Jacob is a member of the band 926 Main Street Apt. 2, which he formed with Joe DeGeorge and Emily Barnett while attending college at Clark University.
In 2015, Harry and the Potters released the EP Hedwig Lives for digital download, which included the tracks "The Great Motorcycle Explosion of '97" and "Ridin' in the Night".
At a live show on March 30, 2018, the band debuted songs from their forthcoming fourth studio album that will be about The Deathly Hallows. They later announced that the album would also feature the anti-folk musician Kimya Dawson as a guest vocalist. Parts of this album were recorded in a studio, and others were recorded at the Lawrence, Kansas public library. On April 23, 2019, the band unveiled a Kickstarter to help recoup the cost of recording the album, which they revealed was named Lumos. Backers could also choose rewards that include an additional album entitled Mostly Camping, as well as a vinyl single called the "Harry Potter Boogie."

Lyrical themes and style

Harry and the Potters couple their rough-edged music with themed lyrics, which define the band as much as the costumes. The straight-forward presentation of adolescent concerns and direness in the simplest of worries is enjoyed by fans. They poke fun at awkward situations from the books. For example, in the song "The Human Hosepipe", they sing, "Maybe you shouldn't have brought up Cedric Diggory/Because I'd rather not talk about your dead ex-boyfriends over coffee." Two other examples of the bands take on teenage angst are seen in the song "Save Ginny Weasley" where they sing, "Are you petrified of being petrified?" and the song "The Godfather." where the gothic or mock-morbid line "Why do I always think that I am going to die?" is sung to an up-beat tune.
For the Harry Potter fandom, Harry and the Potters refer to words and phrases in the books, including Hogwarts, Harry's Firebolt, Felix Felicis, the Flying Car, wizard chess, platform nine and three-quarters, The Burrow, the three-headed dog Fluffy, Mrs. Norris, the basilisk, The Marauder's Map, various spells and incantations, and the Invisibility Cloak.
Harry and the Potters is both performance art project and a rock band. Musically, they are similar to other indie rock music with the exception that the Harry Potter books inspire the lyrics. As Joe said in a 2005 interview, "We try to take the themes from the books and amplify them." Their musical sound is described as "simple, catchy rock – think The White Stripes crossed with Raffi – where everyone sings along which is easy because in songs like 'Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock' the title is pretty much the only line." Another reviewer cites "a touch of the Ramones in their ultra simple lyrics."
The band is organized with Paul and Joe playing their songs in a simple basic guitar-synth-and-drums indie pop style and they sing in the semi-deadpan way; a review found the vocal delivery similar to that of They Might Be Giants. The raison d’être of the band is to put enough energy and spirit into their songs to make them fun.
The band is not musically polished. Paul has joked that, if they had known of the band's popularity, they might have made "an effort to sing in tune. But it's hard to anticipate that sort of thing when you're just writing silly songs and recording them in your living room over a weekend.". Despite this, Paul says that the fans "know we're not the best singers and keyboard players, but we're okay. And they think, well, I could do that, too. I think that's really encouraging to people ..." Paul describes the brothers as a "bridge between this mainstream phenomena of Harry Potter and the indie rock underground. Plus, we're also pretty strong adherents to the DIY ideal." The two brothers promote making music independently and DIY indie rock and punk music.
The Washington Post describes the brothers as having vast quantities of both passion and ability to engage an audience: the "combination of their happy, who-cares personalities and Harry Potter fanaticism has cast a spell over book-loving teens across the country." Paul said, "the band is neither geeky nor cool but 'geeky-cool'. I think the indie-rock community at the very least realizes we're taking a very DIY approach to this."

Campaigning and activism

In 2005 the duo co-founded the non-profit organization The Harry Potter Alliance with Andrew Slack, Seth Reibstein and Sarah Newberry, an organization that uses the Harry Potter books as a platform for inspiring real-world activism, which amongst other activities, helps "wake the world up" to the genocide in Darfur. The projects invites its members to inform their local senator to support the Darfur Accountability and Divestment Act. The Harry Potter Alliance raises awareness for these projects by holding wizard rock concerts and by selling memorabilia to help fund these campaigns.
Harry and the Potters have also collaborated the Harry Potter Alliance compilation album Rocking Out Against Voldemedia, with a song entitled "Don't Believe It". The purpose of the album was to achieve the right to free press and against media consolidation by asking site viewers to contact their member of Congress to support S 2332, the "Media Ownership Act of 2007." Paul said their third EP, the 2007 The Enchanted Ceiling was recorded in their living room.
Harry and the Potters actively promote literacy. Their literary activism includes the reference to Tipper Gore and the Parents Music Resource Center in the song "Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock", which contains the verse, "And we won't let the Dark Lord ruin our party/ Just like Tipper Gore tried with the PMRC."

Legacy and influence

Harry and the Potters have influenced similar acts, such as Draco and the Malfoys, The Whomping Willows, and The Remus Lupins. Wizard rock bands generally play all-ages shows at libraries, bookstores and schools, as the promotion of reading is a hallmark of the genre. In turn, because of their active promotion of literacy, young-adult and teen librarians have been promoting the band. While Harry and the Potters would become notable for making libraries their primary venue, Joe DeGeorge did not see a future in the modest venues: "I think we thought we'd play a few libraries." Paul added, "We thought it would be short-lived. We weren't like super fans, so we didn't understand this whole (Harry Potter) subculture when we started." As The Washington Post wrote, "wizard rock is an escape into a different world – a world of non-judgmental fun where grown-ups dress as wizards, evil is vanquished by song, and reading is cool." The peculiar success of Harry and the Potters has led Paul to "sense a growing affection for us amongst other musicians" and at home. The Boston Phoenix has called Harry and the Potters the "Pink Floyd of Potterdom."
In 2005 there was a wave of new wizard rock bands. The brothers' do-it-yourself musical ethos caught on with bands. Like Harry and the Potters, these new bands also take on the persona, or dress as Harry Potter-themed characters. Though most fans of the music are previous fans of Harry Potter, some bands have attracted listeners outside of the Harry Potter fanbase. Paul and Joe are aware of around 200 other Harry Potter-related rock bands who at least record and post songs on the Internet. The Boston Phoenix wondered—in spite of fully booked calendars—how long wizard rock would last once there are no new stories to riff on, as their musical identity is contingent on the lasting success and popularity of a book series. "In some ways", said Paul, "we want to tie things off and consider it a done deal. We've always viewed this as a project that had a finite life and end point."

Discography

Harry and the Potters (2003)
Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock! (2004)
Harry and the Potters and the Power of Love (2006)
Lumos (2019)


================================================================================

# Harry Melling

Harry Edward Melling (born 17 March 1989) is an English actor who first came to international attention for playing Dudley Dursley in the Harry Potter films (2001–2010). Since then, he has come to prominence for his well-received performances in The Ballad of Buster Scruggs (2018), The Pale Blue Eye (2022), and Pillion (2025).

Early life and education
Harry Edward Melling was born on 17 March 1989 in London, England. His maternal grandfather is actor Patrick Troughton. He studied at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art.

Career

Early work and Harry Potter (1999–2016)
In his early career, Melling performed in stage productions of The Provoked Wife, King John, Antigone, and Plenty. He appeared in five of the Harry Potter films as Harry Potter's spoiled cousin, Dudley Dursley. He was first cast in the role at age 10, in 1999, and played the character until 2010 and his appearance in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1.

In 2009, Melling starred in a revival of Mother Courage and Her Children at the Royal National Theatre. He appeared in "The Sorcerer's Shadow", an episode of the BBC television series Merlin, playing a young warlock who intends to use magic to help him win Camelot's legendary tournament. He also played Robert Brown in the BBC television series Just William. By 2009, Melling had lost so much weight since Order of the Phoenix, the fifth Harry Potter film, that he was now "unrecognisable". The role of Dudley was almost recast for Deathly Hallows – Part 1, but Melling was able to reprise the part by wearing a fatsuit. He said of the change, "I can now shed the child actor thing, like the fat, and start a new career, because no one sees me as Dudley."
In 2014, Melling made his playwriting debut at HighTide Festival with his one-man show Peddling.

Breakthrough and critical acclaim (2018–present)
In 2018, Melling played a significant part alongside Liam Neeson in the Coen brothers' Western The Ballad of Buster Scruggs. Of Melling's performance, The New Yorker film critic Anthony Lane wrote: "[I] came away haunted by a scattering of sights and sounds—above all, by the recitations of the limbless man, which thrum with genuine yearning. He is beautifully played, with a little help from C.G.I., by Harry Melling, who was once the odious Dudley Dursley in the Harry Potter films. Funny how people grow up." Melling later credited his casting in the Coen brothers film as being instrumental in future career opportunities, such as The Pale Blue Eye.
Between 2020 and 2021, Melling appeared in a slew of supporting roles in successful dramas. In 2020, he played evangelical preacher Roy Laferty in the Netflix thriller The Devil All The Time. The same year, he appeared in several episodes of the Netflix miniseries The Queen's Gambit as Harry Beltik, a chess player who becomes a friend and brief love interest of the protagonist Beth Harmon, played by Anya Taylor-Joy. Melling learned how to play chess for his part and elaborated "that’s part of the joy of acting, I think, all these new challenges you face along the way."  The series went on to become the most watched miniseries on Netflix at the time. The next year, Melling collaborated with Joel Coen again for The Tragedy of Macbeth.
In 2022, he had his first leading role as a young Edgar Allan Poe in the crime drama film The Pale Blue Eye, opposite Christian Bale. Elaborating on his casting of Melling, director Scott Cooper stated: "The reason I cast Harry was because of The Ballad of Buster Scruggs... I was utterly enthralled and thought that he was the only person who could play Edgar Allan Poe. It was [the way he delivered those readings,] and it was his look, as he fortunately bears a resemblance to what I imagined a young Poe to be like. He has a sense of vulnerability he isn’t afraid to express. I knew he could handle all of these long passages of dialogue that I have."
In 2025, he starred alongside Alexander Skarsgård in Pillion, an erotic drama film produced by Element Pictures.

Filmography

Film

Television

Stage

Video game

Accolades


================================================================================

# Harry Potter

Harry Potter is a series of seven children's fantasy novels written by British author J. K. Rowling. The novels chronicle the lives of a young wizard, Harry Potter, and his friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, among others, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The main story arc concerns Harry's conflict with Lord Voldemort, a dark wizard who intends to become immortal, overthrow the wizard governing body known as the Ministry of Magic, and subjugate all wizards and non-magical people, known in-universe as Muggles.
The series was originally published in English by Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States. A series of many genres, including fantasy, drama, coming-of-age fiction, and the British school story (which includes elements of mystery, thriller, adventure, horror, and romance), the world of Harry Potter explores numerous themes and includes many cultural meanings and references. Major themes in the series include prejudice, corruption, madness, love, and death.
Since the release of the first novel, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, on 26 June 1997, the books have found immense popularity and commercial success worldwide. They have attracted a wide adult audience as well as younger readers and are widely considered cornerstones of modern literature, though the books have received mixed reviews from critics and literary scholars. As of February 2023, the books have sold more than 600 million copies worldwide, making them the best-selling book series in history, available in dozens of languages. The last four books all set records as the fastest-selling books in history, with the final instalment selling roughly 2.7 million copies in the United Kingdom and 8.3 million copies in the United States within twenty-four hours of its release.
Warner Bros. Pictures adapted the original seven books into an eight-part namesake film series. In 2016, the total value of the Harry Potter franchise was estimated at $25 billion, making it one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time. Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is a play based on a story co-written by Rowling. A television series based on the books is in production at HBO.
The success of the books and films has allowed the Harry Potter franchise to expand with numerous derivative works, a travelling exhibition that premiered in Chicago in 2009, a studio tour in London that opened in 2012, a digital platform on which J. K. Rowling updates the series with new information and insight, and a trilogy of spin-off films premiering in November 2016 with Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, among many other developments. Themed attractions, collectively known as The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, have been built at several Universal Destinations & Experiences amusement parks around the world.

Plot

Early years

The series follows the life of a boy named Harry Potter. In the first book, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone in the US), Harry lives in a cupboard under the stairs in the house of the Dursleys, his aunt, uncle and cousin, who all treat him poorly. At the age of 11, Harry discovers that he is a wizard. He meets a half-giant named Hagrid who gives him a letter of acceptance to attend the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Harry learns that his parents, Lily and James Potter, also had magical powers and were murdered by the dark wizard Lord Voldemort when Harry was a baby. When Voldemort attempted to kill Harry, his curse rebounded, seemingly killing Voldemort, and Harry survived with a lightning-shaped scar on his forehead. The event made Harry famous among the community of wizards and witches.
Harry becomes a student at Hogwarts and is sorted into Gryffindor House. He gains the friendship of Ron Weasley, a member of a large but poor wizarding family, and Hermione Granger, a witch of non-magical, or Muggle, parentage. The trio develop an enmity with the rich pure-blood student Draco Malfoy. Harry encounters the school's headmaster, Albus Dumbledore; the potions professor, Severus Snape, who displays a dislike for him; and the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Quirinus Quirrell. Quirrell turns out to be allied with Voldemort, who is still alive as a weak spirit. The first book concludes with Harry's confrontation with Voldemort, who, in his quest to regain a body, yearns to possess the Philosopher's Stone, a substance that bestows everlasting life.
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets describes Harry's second year at Hogwarts. Students are attacked and petrified by an unknown creature; wizards of Muggle parentage are the primary targets. The attacks appear related to the mythical Chamber of Secrets and resemble attacks fifty years earlier. Harry discovers an ability to speak the snake language Parseltongue, which he learns is rare and associated with the Dark Arts. When Hermione is attacked and Ron's younger sister Ginny Weasley is abducted, Harry and Ron uncover the chamber's secrets and enter it. Harry discovers that Ginny was possessed by an old diary, inside which the memory of Tom Marvolo Riddle, Voldemort's younger self, resides. On Voldemort's behalf, Ginny opened the chamber and unleashed the basilisk, an ancient monster that kills or petrifies those who make direct or indirect eye contact, respectively. With the help of Dumbledore's phoenix, Fawkes, and the Sword of Gryffindor, Harry slays the basilisk and destroys the diary.
In the third novel, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Harry learns that he is targeted by Sirius Black, an escaped convict who allegedly assisted in his parents' murder. Dementors, creatures that feed on happiness, search for Sirius and guard the school. As Harry struggles with his reaction to the dementors, he reaches out to Remus Lupin, a new professor who teaches him the Patronus charm. On a windy night, Ron is dragged by a black dog into the Shrieking Shack, a haunted house, and Harry and Hermione follow. The dog is revealed to be Sirius Black. Lupin enters the shack and explains that Sirius was James Potter's best friend; he was framed by another friend of James, Peter Pettigrew, who hides as Ron's pet rat, Scabbers. As the full moon rises, Lupin transforms into a werewolf and bounds away, and the group chase after him. They are surrounded by dementors, but are saved by a figure resembling James who casts a stag Patronus. This is later revealed to be a future version of Harry, who travelled back in time with Hermione using a device called a Time Turner. The duo help Sirius escape on a Hippogriff, while Pettigrew escapes.

Voldemort returns

In Harry's fourth year of school (detailed in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire), Hogwarts hosts the Triwizard Tournament, a contest between Hogwarts and the schools Beauxbatons and Durmstrang. Harry is unwillingly entered into the contest, becoming Hogwarts' second participant after Cedric Diggory, an unusual occurrence that causes his friends to distance themselves from him. Harry claims the Triwizard Cup with Cedric, but he is teleported to a graveyard where Pettigrew kills Cedric, then resurrects Voldemort using Harry's blood. Voldemort convenes his supporters, the Death Eaters, and Harry manages to escape after a duel with Voldemort. Upon returning to Hogwarts, it is revealed that a Death Eater, Barty Crouch, Jr, in disguise as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, engineered Harry's entry into the tournament, secretly helped him, and had him teleported to Voldemort.
In the fifth book, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, the Ministry of Magic refuses to believe that Voldemort has returned. Dumbledore re-activates the Order of the Phoenix, a secret society to counter Voldemort; meanwhile, the Ministry tightens control of Hogwarts by appointing Dolores Umbridge as High Inquisitor of Hogwarts, and she gradually increases her powers. When Umbridge bans practical teaching of Defence Against the Dark Arts, Harry, Ron and Hermione form "Dumbledore's Army", a secret group to continue the teachings. Harry has recurring dreams of a dark corridor in the Ministry of Magic, eventually dreaming that Sirius is being tortured there. He races to the Ministry with his friends, but it is a trap, planted in his head by Voldemort. The group are attacked by Death Eaters and saved by the Order of the Phoenix, but Sirius is killed in the battle. A duel between Dumbledore and Voldemort convinces the ministry of Voldemort's return. A prophecy concerning Harry and Voldemort is revealed: one must die at the hands of the other.
In the sixth book, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Snape teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts while Horace Slughorn becomes the Potions master. Harry finds an old textbook with annotations by the Half-Blood Prince, due to which he achieves success in Potions class. Harry also takes private sessions with Dumbledore, viewing memories about the early life of Voldemort in a device called a Pensieve. Harry learns from a drunken Slughorn that he used to teach Tom Riddle, and that Voldemort divided his soul into pieces, creating a series of Horcruxes. Harry and Dumbledore travel to a distant lake to destroy a Horcrux; they succeed, but Dumbledore weakens. On their return, they find Draco Malfoy and Death Eaters attacking the school. The book ends with the killing of Dumbledore by Professor Snape, the titular Half-Blood Prince.
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the seventh and final novel in the series, Lord Voldemort gains control of the Ministry of Magic. Harry, Ron and Hermione learn about the Deathly Hallows, legendary items that lead to mastery over death. The group infiltrates the ministry, where they steal a locket Horcrux, and visit Godric's Hollow, where they are attacked by Nagini, Voldemort's snake. A silver doe Patronus leads them to the Sword of Gryffindor, with which they destroy the locket. They steal a Horcrux from Gringotts and travel to Hogwarts, culminating in a battle with the Death Eaters. Snape is killed by Voldemort out of paranoia, but he lends Harry his memories before he dies. Harry learns that Snape was always loyal to Dumbledore, and that Harry is himself a Horcrux. Harry surrenders to Voldemort and is hit with the killing curse; however he is not killed as the protection Lily gave him lives on within Voldemort since he used Harry's blood to resurrect himself. The defenders of Hogwarts continue to fight on; Harry comes back from limbo, faces Voldemort and kills him.
An epilogue titled "Nineteen Years Later" describes the lives of the surviving characters and the impact of Voldemort's death. Harry and Ginny are married with three children, and Ron and Hermione are married with two children.

Style and allusions

Genre and style
The novels fall into the genre of fantasy literature, and qualify as a type of fantasy called "urban fantasy", "contemporary fantasy", or "low fantasy". They are mainly dramas, and maintain a fairly serious and dark tone throughout, though they do contain some notable instances of tragicomedy and black humour. In many respects, they are also examples of the bildungsroman, or coming of age novel, and contain elements of mystery, adventure, horror, thriller, and romance. The books are also, in the words of Stephen King, "shrewd mystery tales", and each book is constructed in the manner of a Sherlock Holmes-style mystery adventure. The stories are told from a third person limited point of view with very few exceptions (such as the opening chapters of Philosopher's Stone, Goblet of Fire and Deathly Hallows and the first two chapters of Half-Blood Prince).
The series can be considered part of the British children's boarding school genre, which includes Rudyard Kipling's Stalky & Co., Enid Blyton's Malory Towers, St. Clare's and the Naughtiest Girl series, and Frank Richards's Billy Bunter novels: the Harry Potter books are predominantly set in Hogwarts, a fictional British boarding school for wizards, where the curriculum includes the use of magic. In this sense they are "in a direct line of descent from Thomas Hughes's Tom Brown's School Days and other Victorian and Edwardian novels of British public school life", though they are, as many note, more contemporary, grittier, darker, and more mature than the typical boarding school novel, addressing serious themes of death, love, loss, prejudice, coming-of-age, and the loss of innocence in a 1990s British setting.
In Harry Potter, Rowling juxtaposes the extraordinary against the ordinary. Her narrative features two worlds: a contemporary world inhabited by non-magical people called Muggles, and another featuring wizards. It differs from typical portal fantasy in that its magical elements stay grounded in the mundane. Paintings move and talk; books bite readers; letters shout messages; and maps show live journeys, making the wizarding world both exotic and familiar. This blend of realistic and romantic elements extends to Rowling's characters. Their names are often aptronyms: Malfoy is difficult, Filch is unpleasant, and Lupin is a werewolf. Harry is ordinary and relatable, with down-to-earth features such as wearing broken glasses; the scholar Roni Natov terms him an "everychild". These elements serve to highlight Harry when he is heroic, making him both an everyman and a fairytale hero.
Each of the seven books is set over the course of one school year. Harry struggles with the problems he encounters, and dealing with them often involves the need to violate some school rules. If students are caught breaking rules, they are often disciplined by Hogwarts professors. The stories reach their climax in the summer term, near or just after final exams, when events escalate far beyond in-school squabbles and struggles, and Harry must confront either Voldemort or one of his followers, the Death Eaters, with the stakes a matter of life and death—a point underlined, as the series progresses, by characters being killed in each of the final four books. In the aftermath, he learns important lessons through exposition and discussions with head teacher and mentor Albus Dumbledore. The only exception to this school-centred setting is the final novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, in which Harry and his friends spend most of their time away from Hogwarts, and only return there to face Voldemort at the dénouement.

Allusions
The Harry Potter stories feature imagery and motifs drawn from Arthurian myth and fairytales. Harry's ability to draw the Sword of Gryffindor from the Sorting Hat resembles the Arthurian sword in the stone legend. His life with the Dursleys has been compared to Cinderella. Hogwarts resembles a medieval university-cum-castle with several professors who belong to an Order of Merlin; Old Professor Binns still lectures about the International Warlock Convention of 1289; and a real historical person, a 14th-century scribe, Sir Nicolas Flamel, is described as a holder of the Philosopher's Stone. Other medieval elements in Hogwarts include coats-of-arms and medieval weapons on the walls, letters written on parchment and sealed with wax, the Great Hall of Hogwarts, which is similar to the Great Hall of Camelot, the use of Latin phrases, the tents put up for Quidditch tournaments, which are similar to the "marvellous tents" put up for knightly tournaments, imaginary animals like dragons and unicorns that exist around Hogwarts, and the banners with heraldic animals for the four Houses of Hogwarts.
Many of the motifs of the Potter stories, such as the hero's quest invoking objects that confer invisibility, magical animals and trees, a forest full of danger and the recognition of a character based upon scars, are drawn from medieval French Arthurian romances. Other aspects borrowed from French Arthurian romances include the use of owls as messengers, werewolves as characters, and white deer. The American scholars Heather Arden and Kathryn Lorenz in particular argue that many aspects of the Potter stories are inspired by a 14th-century French Arthurian romance, Claris et Laris, writing of the "startling" similarities between the adventures of Potter and the knight Claris. Arden and Lorenz noted that Rowling graduated from the University of Exeter in 1986 with a degree in French literature and spent a year living in France afterwards.
Like C. S. Lewis's The Chronicles of Narnia, Harry Potter also contains Christian symbolism and allegory. The series has been viewed as a Christian moral fable in the psychomachia tradition, in which stand-ins for good and evil fight for supremacy over a person's soul. Children's literature critic Joy Farmer sees parallels between Harry and Jesus Christ. Comparing Rowling with Lewis, she argues that "magic is both authors' way of talking about spiritual reality". According to Maria Nikolajeva, Christian imagery is particularly strong in the final scenes of the series: Harry dies in self-sacrifice and Voldemort delivers an "ecce homo" speech, after which Harry is resurrected and defeats his enemy.
Rowling stated that she did not reveal Harry Potter's religious parallels in the beginning because doing so would have "give[n] too much away to fans who might then see the parallels". In the final book of the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Rowling makes the book's Christian imagery more explicit, quoting both Matthew 6:21 and 1 Corinthians 15:26 (King James Version) when Harry visits his parents' graves. Hermione Granger teaches Harry Potter that the meaning of these verses from the Christian Bible are "living beyond death. Living after death", which Rowling states  "epitomize the whole series". Rowling also exhibits Christian values in developing Albus Dumbledore as a God-like character, the divine, trusted leader of the series, guiding the long-suffering hero along his quest. In the seventh novel, Harry speaks with and questions the deceased Dumbledore much like a person of faith would talk to and question God.

Themes

Harry Potter's overarching theme is death. In the first book, when Harry looks into the Mirror of Erised, he feels both joy and "a terrible sadness" at seeing his desire: his parents, alive and with him. Confronting their loss is central to Harry's character arc and manifests in different ways through the series, such as in his struggles with Dementors. Other characters in Harry's life die; he even faces his own death in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. The series has an existential perspective—Harry must grow mature enough to accept death. In Harry's world, death is not binary but mutable, a state that exists in degrees. Unlike Voldemort, who evades death by separating and hiding his soul in seven parts, Harry's soul is whole, nourished by friendship and love.
Love distinguishes Harry and Voldemort. Harry is a hero because he loves others, even willing to accept death to save them; Voldemort is a villain because he does not. Harry carries the protection of his mother's sacrifice in his blood; Voldemort, who wants Harry's blood and the protection it carries, does not understand that love vanquishes death.
Rowling has spoken about thematising death and loss in the series. Soon after she started writing Philosopher's Stone, her mother died; she said that "I really think from that moment on, death became a central, if not the central theme of the seven books". Rowling has described Harry as "the prism through which I view death", and further stated that "all of my characters are defined by their attitude to death and the possibility of death".
While Harry Potter can be viewed as a story about good vs. evil, its moral divisions are not absolute. First impressions of characters are often misleading. Harry assumes in the first book that Quirrell is on the side of good because he opposes Snape, who appears to be malicious; in reality, Quirrell is an agent of Voldemort, while Snape is loyal to Dumbledore. This pattern later recurs with Moody and Snape. In Rowling's world, good and evil are choices rather than inherent attributes: second chances and the possibility of redemption are key themes of the series. This is reflected in Harry's self-doubts after learning his connections to Voldemort, such as Parseltongue; and prominently in Snape's characterisation, which has been described as complex and multifaceted. In some scholars' view, while Rowling's narrative appears on the surface to be about Harry, her focus may actually be on Snape's morality and character arc.
Rowling said that, to her, the moral significance of the tales seems "blindingly obvious". In the fourth book, Dumbledore speaks of a "choice between what is right and what is easy"; Rowling views this as a key theme, "because that ... is how tyranny is started, with people being apathetic and taking the easy route and suddenly finding themselves in deep trouble".
Academics and journalists have developed many other interpretations of themes in the books, some more complex than others, and some including political subtexts. Themes such as normality, oppression, survival, and overcoming imposing odds have all been considered as prevalent throughout the series. Similarly, the theme of making one's way through adolescence and "going over one's most harrowing ordeals—and thus coming to terms with them" has also been considered. Rowling has stated that the books comprise "a prolonged argument for tolerance, a prolonged plea for an end to bigotry" and that they also pass on a message to "question authority and... not assume that the establishment or the press tells you all of the truth".

Development history

In 1990, Rowling was on a crowded train from Manchester to London when the idea for Harry suddenly "fell into" her head. Rowling later described the experience on her website :

I had been writing almost continuously since the age of six but I had never been so excited about an idea before. I simply sat and thought, for four (delayed train) hours, and all the details bubbled up in my brain, and this scrawny, black-haired, bespectacled boy who did not know he was a wizard became more and more real to me.
Rowling completed Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone in 1995. The manuscript was submitted to several literary agents, and the second agent she approached, Christopher Little, agreed to represent her and submitted the manuscript to publishers.

Publishing history

After twelve other publishers had rejected Philosopher's Stone, Bloomsbury agreed to publish the book. Despite Rowling's statement that she did not have any particular age group in mind when beginning to write the Harry Potter books, the publishers initially targeted children aged nine to eleven. On the eve of publishing, Rowling was asked by her publishers to adopt a more gender-neutral pen name in order to appeal to the male members of this age group, fearing that they would not be interested in reading a novel they knew to be written by a woman. She elected to use J. K. Rowling (Joanne Kathleen Rowling), using her grandmother's name as her second name because she has no middle name.
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was published by Bloomsbury, the publisher of all Harry Potter books in the United Kingdom, on 26 June 1997. It was published in the United States on 1 September 1998 by Scholastic—the American publisher of the books—as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, after the American rights sold for US$105,000—a record amount for a children's book by an unknown author. Scholastic feared that American readers would not associate the word "philosopher" with magic, and Rowling suggested the title Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone for the American market. Rowling has later said that she regrets the change.
The second book, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, was originally published in the UK on 2 July 1998 and in the US on 2 June 1999. Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was published a year later in the UK on 8 July 1999 and in the US on 8 September 1999. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was published on 8 July 2000 at the same time by Bloomsbury and Scholastic. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is the longest book in the series, at 766 pages in the UK version and 870 pages in the US version. It was published worldwide in English on 21 June 2003. Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was published on 16 July 2005. The seventh and final novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, was published on 21 July 2007. Rowling herself has stated that the last chapter of the final book (in fact, the epilogue) was completed "in something like 1990".
Rowling retained rights to digital editions and released them on the Pottermore website in 2012. Vendors such as Amazon displayed the ebooks in the form of links to Pottermore, which controlled pricing. All seven Harry Potter novels have been released in unabridged audiobook versions, with Stephen Fry reading the British editions and Jim Dale voicing the series for the American editions. On Audible, the series has been listened to, as of November 2022, for over a billion hours.

Translations

The series has been translated into more than 80 languages, placing Rowling among the most translated authors in history. The books have seen translations to diverse languages such as Korean, Armenian, Ukrainian, Arabic, Urdu, Hindi, Bengali, Bulgarian, Welsh, Afrikaans, Albanian, Latvian, Vietnamese and Hawaiian. The first volume has been translated into Latin and even Ancient Greek, making it the longest published work in Ancient Greek since the novels of Heliodorus of Emesa in the 3rd century AD. The second volume has also been translated into Latin.
Some of the translators hired to work on the books were well-known authors before their work on Harry Potter, such as Viktor Golyshev, who oversaw the Russian translation of the series' fifth book. The Turkish translation of books two to seven was undertaken by Sevin Okyay, a popular literary critic and cultural commentator. For reasons of secrecy, translation on a given book could only start after it had been released in English, leading to a lag of several months before the translations were available. This led to more and more copies of the English editions being sold to impatient fans in non-English speaking countries; for example, such was the clamour to read Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix that its English language edition became the first English-language book ever to top the best-seller list in France.
The United States editions were adapted into American English to make them more understandable to a young American audience.

Cover art
For cover art, Bloomsbury chose painted art in a classic style of design, with the first cover a watercolour and pencil drawing by illustrator Thomas Taylor showing Harry boarding the Hogwarts Express, and a title in the font Cochin Bold. The first releases of the successive books in the series followed in the same style but somewhat more realistic, illustrating scenes from the books. These covers were created by first Cliff Wright and then Jason Cockroft.
Due to the appeal of the books among an adult audience, Bloomsbury commissioned a second line of editions in an 'adult' style. These initially used black-and-white photographic art for the covers showing objects from the books (including a very American Hogwarts Express) without depicting people, but later shifted to partial colourisation with a picture of Slytherin's locket on the cover of the final book.
International and later editions have been created by a range of designers, including Mary GrandPré for US audiences and Mika Launis in Finland. For a later American release, Kazu Kibuishi created covers in a somewhat anime-influenced style.

Reception

Commercial success

The popularity of the Harry Potter series has translated into substantial financial success for Rowling, her publishers, and other Harry Potter related licence holders. This success has made Rowling the first and thus far only billionaire author. The books have sold more than 600 million copies worldwide and have also given rise to the popular film adaptations produced by Warner Bros. Pictures, all of which have been highly successful in their own right. The total revenue from the book sales is estimated, as of November 2018, to be around $7.7 billion. The first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, has sold in excess of 120 million copies, making it one of the bestselling books in history. The films have in turn spawned eight video games and have led to the licensing of more than 400 additional Harry Potter products. The Harry Potter brand has been estimated to be worth as much as $25 billion.
The great demand for Harry Potter novels motivated The New York Times to create a separate best-seller list for children's literature in 2000, just before the release of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. By 24 June 2000, Rowling's novels had been on the list for 79 straight weeks; the first three novels were each on the hardcover best-seller list. On 12 April 2007, Barnes & Noble declared that Deathly Hallows had broken its pre-order record, with more than 500,000 copies pre-ordered through its site. For the release of Goblet of Fire, 9,000 FedEx trucks were used with no other purpose than to deliver the book. Together, Amazon.com and Barnes & Noble pre-sold more than 700,000 copies of the book. In the United States, the book's initial printing run was 3.8 million copies. This record statistic was broken by Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, with 8.5 million, which was then shattered by Half-Blood Prince with 10.8 million copies. Within the first 24 hours of its release, 6.9 million copies of Prince were sold in the US; in the UK more than two million copies were sold on the first day. The initial US print run for Deathly Hallows was 12 million copies, and more than a million were pre-ordered through Amazon and Barnes & Noble.
Fans of the series were so eager for the latest instalment that bookstores around the world began holding events to coincide with the midnight release of the books, beginning with the 2000 publication of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. The events, commonly featuring mock sorting, games, face painting, and other live entertainment have achieved popularity with Potter fans and have been highly successful in attracting fans and selling books with nearly nine million of the 10.8 million initial print copies of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince sold in the first 24 hours. The final book in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows became the fastest selling book in history, moving 11 million units in the first twenty-four hours of release. The book sold 2.7 million copies in the UK and 8.3 million in the US. The series was awarded the title of best selling children's book series by Guinness World Records in 2018. The series has also gathered adult fans, leading to the release of two editions of each Harry Potter book, identical in text but with one edition's cover artwork aimed at children and the other aimed at adults.

Literary criticism
Early in its history, Harry Potter received positive reviews. On publication, the first book, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, attracted attention from the Scottish newspapers, such as The Scotsman, which said it had "all the makings of a classic", and The Glasgow Herald, which called it "Magic stuff". Soon the English newspapers joined in, with The Sunday Times comparing it to Roald Dahl's work ("comparisons to Dahl are, this time, justified"), while The Guardian called it "a richly textured novel given lift-off by an inventive wit".
By the time of the release of the fifth book, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, the books began to receive strong criticism from literary scholars. Yale professor, literary scholar, and critic Harold Bloom raised criticisms of the books' literary merits, saying, "Rowling's mind is so governed by clichés and dead metaphors that she has no other style of writing." A. S. Byatt authored an op-ed article in The New York Times calling Rowling's universe a "secondary secondary world, made up of intelligently patchworked derivative motifs from all sorts of children's literature ... written for people whose imaginative lives are confined to TV cartoons, and the exaggerated (more exciting, not threatening) mirror-worlds of soaps, reality TV and celebrity gossip."
Michael Rosen, a novelist and poet, held the opinion that the books were not suited for children, as they would be unable to grasp the complex themes. Rosen also stated that "J. K. Rowling is more of an adult writer." The critic Anthony Holden wrote in The Observer on his experience of judging Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban for the 1999 Whitbread Awards. His overall view of the series was negative—"the Potter saga was essentially patronising, conservative, highly derivative, dispiritingly nostalgic for a bygone Britain", and he speaks of "a pedestrian, ungrammatical prose style". Ursula K. Le Guin said, "I have no great opinion of it [...] it seemed a lively kid's fantasy crossed with a 'school novel,' good fare for its age group, but stylistically ordinary, imaginatively derivative, and ethically rather mean-spirited." By contrast, author Fay Weldon, while admitting that the series is "not what the poets hoped for", nevertheless goes on to say, "but this is not poetry, it is readable, saleable, everyday, useful prose".
The literary critic A. N. Wilson praised the Harry Potter series in The Times, stating, "There are not many writers who have JK's Dickensian ability to make us turn the pages, to weep—openly, with tears splashing—and a few pages later to laugh, at invariably good jokes ... We have lived through a decade in which we have followed the publication of the liveliest, funniest, scariest and most moving children's stories ever written." Charles Taylor of Salon.com, who is primarily a movie critic, took issue with Byatt's criticisms in particular. While he conceded that she may have "a valid cultural point—a teeny one—about the impulses that drive us to reassuring pop trash and away from the troubling complexities of art", he rejected her claims that the series is lacking in serious literary merit and that it owes its success merely to the childhood reassurances it offers. Stephen King called the series "a feat of which only a superior imagination is capable", and declared "Rowling's punning, one-eyebrow-cocked sense of humor" to be "remarkable". However, he wrote that he is "a little tired of discovering Harry at home with his horrible aunt and uncle", the formulaic beginning of all seven books.
Sameer Rahim of The Daily Telegraph disagreed, saying "It depresses me to see 16- and 17-year-olds reading the series when they could be reading the great novels of childhood such as Oliver Twist or A House for Mr Biswas." The Washington Post book critic Ron Charles opined in July 2007 that "through no fault of Rowling's", the cultural and marketing "hysteria" marked by the publication of the later books "trains children and adults to expect the roar of the coliseum, a mass-media experience that no other novel can possibly provide". Jenny Sawyer wrote in The Christian Science Monitor on 25 July 2007 that Harry Potter neither faces a "moral struggle" nor undergoes any ethical growth and is thus "no guide in circumstances in which right and wrong are anything less than black and white". In contrast Emily Griesinger described Harry's first passage through to Platform 9+3⁄4 as an application of faith and hope, and his encounter with the Sorting Hat as the first of many in which Harry is shaped by the choices he makes.
In an 8 November 2002, Slate article, Chris Suellentrop likened Potter to a "trust-fund kid whose success at school is largely attributable to the gifts his friends and relatives lavish upon him". In a 12 August 2007 review of Deathly Hallows in The New York Times, however, Christopher Hitchens praised Rowling for "unmooring" her "English school story" from literary precedents "bound up with dreams of wealth and class and snobbery", arguing that she had instead created "a world of youthful democracy and diversity".
In 2016, an article written by Diana C. Mutz compared the politics of Harry Potter to the 2016 Donald Trump presidential campaign. She suggests that these themes are also present in the presidential election and it may play a significant role in how Americans have responded to the campaign.
There is ongoing discussion regarding the extent to which the series was inspired by Tolkien's Lord of the Rings books.

Thematic critique
The portrayal of women in Harry Potter has been described as complex and varied, but nonetheless conforming to stereotypical and patriarchal depictions of gender. Gender divides are ostensibly absent in the books: Hogwarts is coeducational and women hold positions of power in wizarding society. However, this setting obscures the typecasting of female characters and the general depiction of conventional gender roles. According to scholars Elizabeth Heilman and Trevor Donaldson, the subordination of female characters goes further early in the series. The final three books "showcase richer roles and more powerful females": for instance, the series' "most matriarchal character", Molly Weasley, engages substantially in the final battle of Deathly Hallows, while other women are shown as leaders. Hermione Granger, in particular, becomes an active and independent character essential to the protagonists' battle against evil. Yet, even particularly capable female characters such as Hermione and Minerva McGonagall are placed in supporting roles, and Hermione's status as a feminist model is debated. Girls and women are more frequently shown as emotional, more often defined by their appearance, and less often given agency in family settings.
The social hierarchy of wizards in Rowling's world has drawn debate among critics. "Purebloods" have two wizard parents; "half-bloods" have one; and "Muggle-born" wizards have magical abilities, although neither of their parents is a wizard. Lord Voldemort and his followers believe that blood purity is paramount and that Muggles are subhuman. According to the literary scholar Andrew Blake, Harry Potter rejects blood purity as a basis for social division; Suman Gupta agrees that Voldemort's philosophy represents "absolute evil"; and Nel and Eccleshare agree that advocates of racial or blood-based hierarchies are antagonists. Gupta, following Blake, suggests that the essential superiority of wizards over Muggles—wizards can use magic and Muggles cannot—means that the books cannot coherently reject anti-Muggle prejudice by appealing to equality between wizards and Muggles. Rather, according to Gupta, Harry Potter models a form of tolerance based on the "charity and altruism of those belonging to superior races" towards lesser races.
Harry Potter's's depiction of race, specifically the slavery of house-elves, has received varied responses. Scholars such as Brycchan Carey have praised the books' abolitionist sentiments, viewing Hermione's Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare as a model for younger readers' political engagement. Other critics including Farah Mendlesohn find the portrayal of house-elves "most difficult to accept": the elves are denied the right to free themselves and rely on the benevolence of others like Hermione. Pharr terms the house-elves a disharmonious element in the series, writing that Rowling leaves their fate hanging; at the end of Deathly Hallows, the elves remain enslaved and cheerful. The goblins of the world of Harry Potter have also received criticism for following antisemitic caricatures – particularly for their grotesque "hook-nosed" portrayal in the films, an appearance associated with Jewish stereotypes.

Controversies

The books have been the subject of legal proceedings, stemming from various conflicts over copyright and trademark infringements. The popularity and high market value of the series has led Rowling, her publishers, and film distributor Warner Bros. Pictures to take legal measures to protect their copyright, which have included banning the sale of Harry Potter imitations, targeting the owners of websites over the "Harry Potter" domain name, and suing author Nancy Stouffer to counter her accusations that Rowling had plagiarised her work.
Various religious fundamentalists have claimed that the books promote witchcraft and religions such as Wicca and are therefore unsuitable for children, while critics have criticised the books for promoting various political agendas. The series has landed the American Library Associations' Top 10 Banned Book List in 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2019 with claims it was anti-family, discussed magic and witchcraft, contained actual spells and curses, referenced the occult/Satanism, violence, and had characters who used "nefarious means" to attain goals, as well as conflicts with religious viewpoints.
The books also aroused controversies in the literary and publishing worlds. From 1997 to 1998, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone won almost all the United Kingdom awards judged by children, but none of the children's book awards judged by adults, and Sandra Beckett suggested the reason was intellectual snobbery towards books that were popular among children. In 1999, the winner of the Whitbread Book of the Year award children's division was entered for the first time on the shortlist for the main award, and one judge threatened to resign if Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was declared the overall winner; it finished second, very close behind the winner of the poetry prize, Seamus Heaney's translation of the Anglo-Saxon epic Beowulf.
In 2000, shortly before the publication of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, the previous three Harry Potter books topped The New York Times fiction best-seller list and a third of the entries were children's books. The newspaper created a new children's section covering children's books, including both fiction and non-fiction, and initially counting only hardback sales. The move was supported by publishers and booksellers. In 2004, The New York Times further split the children's list, which was still dominated by Harry Potter books, into sections for series and individual books and removed the Harry Potter books from the section for individual books. The split in 2000 attracted condemnation, praise and some comments that presented both benefits and disadvantages of the move. Time suggested that, on the same principle, Billboard should have created a separate "mop-tops" list in 1964 when The Beatles held the top five places in its list, and Nielsen should have created a separate game-show list when Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? dominated the ratings.

Legacy

Influence on literature

Harry Potter transformed children's literature. In the 1970s, children's books  were generally realistic as opposed to fantastic, while adult fantasy became popular because of the influence of The Lord of the Rings. The next decade saw an increasing interest in grim, realist themes, with an outflow of fantasy readers and writers to adult works.
The commercial success of Harry Potter reversed this trend. The scale of its growth had no precedent in the children's market: within four years of the series' inception, it occupied 28% of that field by revenue. Children's literature rose in cultural status, and fantasy became a dominant genre. Older works in the genre, including Diana Wynne Jones's Chrestomanci series and Diane Duane's Young Wizards, were reprinted and rose in popularity; some authors re-established their careers. In the following decades, many Harry Potter imitators and subversive responses grew popular.
Rowling has been compared to Enid Blyton, who also wrote in simple language about groups of children and long held sway over the British children's market. She has also been described as an heir to Roald Dahl. Some critics view Harry Potter's rise, along with the concurrent success of Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials, as part of a broader shift in reading tastes: a rejection of literary fiction in favour of plot and adventure. This is reflected in the BBC's 2003 "Big Read" survey of the UK's favourite books, where Pullman and Rowling ranked at numbers 3 and 5, respectively, with very few British literary classics in the top 10.

Cultural influence

Harry Potter has been described as a cultural phenomenon. The word "Muggle" has spread beyond its origins in the books, entering the Oxford English Dictionary in 2003. A real-life version of the sport Quidditch was created in 2005 and featured as an exhibition tournament in the 2012 London Olympics. Characters and elements from the series have inspired scientific names of several organisms, including the dinosaur Dracorex hogwartsia, the spider Eriovixia gryffindori, the wasp Ampulex dementor, and the crab Harryplax severus.
Librarian Nancy Knapp pointed out the books' potential to improve literacy by motivating children to read much more than they otherwise would. The seven-book series has a word count of 1,083,594 (US edition). Agreeing about the motivating effects, Diane Penrod also praised the books' blending of simple entertainment with "the qualities of highbrow literary fiction", but expressed concern about the distracting effect of the prolific merchandise that accompanies the book launches. However, the assumption that Harry Potter books have increased literacy among young people is "largely a folk legend".
Research by the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) has found no increase in reading among children coinciding with the Harry Potter publishing phenomenon, nor has the broader downward trend in reading among Americans been arrested during the rise in the popularity of the Harry Potter books. The research also found that children who read Harry Potter books were not more likely to go on to read outside the fantasy and mystery genres. NEA chairman Dana Gioia said the series, "got millions of kids to read a long and reasonably complex series of books. The trouble is that one Harry Potter novel every few years is not enough to reverse the decline in reading."
Many fan fiction and fan art works about Harry Potter have been made. In March 2007, "Harry Potter" was the most commonly searched fan fiction subject on the internet.
Jennifer Conn used Snape's and Quidditch coach Madam Hooch's teaching methods as examples of what to avoid and what to emulate in clinical teaching, and Joyce Fields wrote that the books illustrate four of the five main topics in a typical first-year sociology class: "sociological concepts including culture, society, and socialisation; stratification and social inequality; social institutions; and social theory".
From the early 2000s onwards, several news reports appeared in the UK of the Harry Potter book and movie series driving demand for pet owls, and even reports that after the end of the movie series these same pet owls were now being abandoned by their owners. This led J. K. Rowling to issue several statements urging Harry Potter fans to refrain from purchasing pet owls. Despite the media flurry, research into the popularity of Harry Potter and sales of owls in the UK failed to find any evidence that the Harry Potter franchise had influenced the buying of owls in the country or the number of owls reaching animal shelters and sanctuaries.
By 2003, a sign marking Platform 9 3/4 was put up at the London King's Cross railway station, with a trolley fixed to the wall added by the year 2005. The location of the trolley moved after renovations, and a Harry Potter-themed shop opened nearby in 2012. Prince Charles visited the location in 2013.
1 September, the day Harry Potter generally started school at Hogwarts, became known to fans as "Back to Hogwarts Day", gaining more prominence starting in 2015 when J.K. Rowling suggested on social media that it was the year Harry Potter would be starting to send off his own children to Hogwarts, though in 2016 she later acknowledged that she was wrong by a year regarding the King's Cross events in the epilogue. On the date in 2024, fans showed up at King's Cross Station even though no event was held and fans were discouraged from attending, reportedly due to crowding issues the year before, and booed when no Hogwarts Express announcement was made at 11 a.m. as in previous years. Organisers had encouraged fans to participate in virtual events, while in-person events were held at other locations like Grand Central Terminal in New York City and Hamburg, Germany.
British book publisher Bloomsbury announced the launch of "Harry Potter Book Night" and associated promotional events in 2014, first held in February 2015. In 2023, the event was rebranded to "Harry Potter Book Day" and moved to October.
After Rowling began making trans-exclusionary remarks on social media from 2019 onwards, many former fans rejected the series.

Awards, honours, and recognition

The Harry Potter series has been recognised by a host of awards since the initial publication of Philosopher's Stone, including a platinum award from the Whitaker Gold and Platinum Book Awards (2001), three Nestlé Smarties Book Prizes (1997–1999), two Scottish Arts Council Book Awards (1999 and 2001), the inaugural Whitbread children's book of the year award (1999), and the WHSmith book of the year (2006), among others. In 2000, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was nominated for a Hugo Award for Best Novel, and in 2001, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire won said award. Honours include a commendation for the Carnegie Medal (1997), a short listing for the Guardian Children's Award (1998), and numerous listings on the notable books, editors' choices, and best books lists of the American Library Association, The New York Times, Chicago Public Library, and Publishers Weekly.
In 2002, sociologist Andrew Blake named Harry Potter a British pop culture icon along with the likes of James Bond and Sherlock Holmes. In 2003, four of the books were named in the top 24 of the BBC's The Big Read survey of the best loved novels in the UK. A 2004 study found that books in the series were commonly read aloud in elementary schools in San Diego County, California. Based on a 2007 online poll, the US National Education Association listed the series in its "Teachers' Top 100 Books for Children".  Time magazine named Rowling as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year award, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fandom. Three of the books placed among the "Top 100 Chapter Books" of all time, or children's novels, in a 2012 survey published by School Library Journal: Sorcerer's Stone ranked number three, Prisoner of Azkaban 12th, and Goblet of Fire 98th.
In 2007, the seven Harry Potter book covers were depicted on a series of UK postage stamps issued by Royal Mail. In 2012, the opening ceremony of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London featured a 100-foot tall rendition of Lord Voldemort in a segment designed to showcase the UK's cultural icons. In November 2019, the BBC listed the Harry Potter series on its list of the 100 most influential novels.

Adaptations

Films

In 1999, Rowling sold the film rights for Harry Potter to Warner Bros. for a reported £1 million (US$2,000,000). Rowling had creative control on the film series, observing the filmmaking process of Philosopher's Stone and serving as producer on the two-part Deathly Hallows, alongside David Heyman and David Barron. Rowling demanded the principal cast be kept strictly British and Irish, nonetheless allowing for the inclusion or French and Eastern European actors where characters from the book are specified as such.
Chris Columbus was selected as the director for Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (titled "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" in the United States). Philosopher's Stone was released on 14 November 2001. Just three days after the film's release, production for Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, also directed by Columbus, began and the film was released on 15 November 2002. Columbus declined to direct Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, only acting as producer. Mexican director Alfonso Cuarón took over the job, and after shooting in 2003, the film was released on 4 June 2004. Due to the fourth film beginning its production before the third's release, Mike Newell was chosen as the director for Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, released on 18 November 2005. Newell became the first British director of the series, with television director David Yates following suit after he was chosen to helm Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Production began in January 2006 and the film was released the following year in July 2007. Yates was selected to direct Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, which was released on 15 July 2009. The final instalment in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows was released in two cinematic parts: Part 1 on 19 November 2010 and Part 2 on 15 July 2011.

Spin-off prequels

A prequel series is planned to consist of five films, taking place before the main series. The first film Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them was released in November 2016, followed by the second Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald in November 2018 and Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore in April 2022. Rowling wrote the screenplays for all three films, marking her foray into screenwriting.

Games

Several non-interactive media games and board games have been released such as Cluedo Harry Potter Edition, Scene It? Harry Potter and Lego Harry Potter models, which are influenced by the themes of both the novels and films.
There are fourteen Harry Potter video games, eight corresponding with the films and books and six spin-offs. The film/book-based games are produced by Electronic Arts (EA), as was Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup, with the game version of the first entry in the series, Philosopher's Stone, being released in November 2001. Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone went on to become one of the best-selling PlayStation games ever. The video games were released to coincide with the films. Objectives usually occur in and around Hogwarts. The story and design of the games follow the selected film's characterisation and plot; EA worked closely with Warner Bros. to include scenes from the films. The last game in the series, Deathly Hallows, was split, with Part 1 released in November 2010 and Part 2 debuting on consoles in July 2011.
The spin-off games Lego Harry Potter: Years 1–4 and Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7 were developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. The spin-off games Book of Spells and Book of Potions were developed by London Studio and use the Wonderbook, an augmented reality book designed to be used in conjunction with the PlayStation Move and PlayStation Eye. The Harry Potter universe, the Wizarding World, is also featured in Lego Dimensions, with the settings and side characters featured in the Harry Potter Adventure World, and Harry, Voldemort, and Hermione as playable characters. In 2017, Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment opened its own Harry Potter-themed game design studio, by the name of Portkey Games, before releasing Hogwarts Mystery, developed by Jam City, in 2018 and Hogwarts Legacy, developed by Avalanche Software, in 2023.

Stage production

Harry Potter and the Cursed Child: Parts I and II is a play which serves as a sequel to the books, beginning nineteen years after the events of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. It was written by Jack Thorne based on an original new story by Thorne, Rowling and John Tiffany. It has run at the Palace Theatre in London's West End since previews began on 7 June 2016 with an official premiere on 30 June 2016. The first four months of tickets for the June–September performances were sold out within several hours upon release. Forthcoming productions are planned for Broadway and Melbourne.
The script was released as a book at the time of the premiere, with a revised version following the next year.

Television

On 25 January 2021, it was reported that a live-action television series has been in early development at HBO Max. Though it was noted that the series has "complicated rights issues", due to a seven-year rights deal with Warner Bros. Domestic TV Distribution that included US broadcast, cable and streaming rights to the franchise, which ended in April 2025. On 12 April 2023, the series was confirmed to be in development, and will be streamed on the new streaming service HBO Max. On 23 February 2024, Warner Bros. Discovery CEO David Zaslav announced that the series would debut on Max in 2026. On 25 June 2024, it was announced the series was moved from HBO Max to HBO. The series is planned to adapt one book per season, with seven seasons planned.
An open casting call for the three leading young actors in the UK and Ireland was announced in September 2024, with Variety reporting that 32,000 children auditioned for the roles, with filming to start in summer 2025. On 25 February 2025, American actor John Lithgow confirmed reports that he had been cast as Dumbledore in the series. On 27 May 2025, it was announced that Dominic McLaughlin, Alastair Stout and Arabella Stanton were cast as Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger respectively.

Full-cast audiobooks
In 2024, it was announced that the novels would be adapted into full-cast audio productions with a voice cast of over 100 voice actors to be released in late 2025. In August 2025, it was announced that the audio dramas would be released monthly, starting on 4 November 2025.

Attractions

Universal and Warner Bros. created The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, a Harry Potter-themed expansion to the Islands of Adventure theme park at Universal Orlando Resort in Florida. It opened to the public on 18 June 2010. It includes a recreation of Hogsmeade and several rides; its flagship attraction is Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, which exists within a recreation of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
In 2014 Universal opened a Harry Potter-themed area at the Universal Studios Florida theme park. It includes a recreation of Diagon Alley. The flagship attraction is the Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts roller coaster ride. A completely functioning full-scale replica of the Hogwarts Express was created for the Diagon Alley expansion, connecting King's Cross Station at Universal Studios to the Hogsmeade station at Islands of Adventure. The Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened at the Universal Studios Hollywood theme park near Los Angeles, California in 2016, and in Universal Studios Japan theme park in Osaka, Japan in 2014. The Osaka venue includes the village of Hogsmeade, Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey ride, and Flight of the Hippogriff roller coaster. Other Harry Potter roller coasters are the Dragon Challenge which closed to make way for Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure, at Universal Islands of Adventure.
Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter is a behind-the-scenes walking tour in London featuring authentic sets, costumes and props from the film series. The attraction is located at Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden, where all eight of the Harry Potter films were made. Warner Bros. constructed two new sound stages to house and showcase the sets from each of the British-made productions, following a £100 million investment. It opened to the public in March 2012. A Japan based version of the studio tour was announced in August 2020 and opened on 16 June 2023.

Supplementary works

Rowling expanded the Harry Potter universe with short books produced for charities. In 2001, she released Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (a purported Hogwarts textbook) and Quidditch Through the Ages (a book Harry reads for fun). Proceeds from the sale of these two books benefited the charity Comic Relief. In 2007, Rowling composed seven handwritten copies of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, a collection of fairy tales that is featured in the final novel, one of which was auctioned to raise money for the Children's High Level Group, a fund for mentally disabled children in poor countries. The book was published internationally on 4 December 2008. Rowling also wrote an 800-word prequel in 2008 as part of a fundraiser organised by the bookseller Waterstones. All three of these books contain extra information about the wizarding world not included in the original novels.
In 2016, she released three new e-books: Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide, Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky Poltergeists and Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies.

Rowling's website Pottermore was launched in 2012. Pottermore allows users to be sorted, be chosen by their wand and play various minigames. The main purpose of the website was to allow the user to journey through the story with access to content not revealed by JK Rowling previously, with over 18,000 words of additional content. The site was redesigned in 2015 as WizardingWorld and it mainly focuses on the information already available, rather than exploration.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts

Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts is a television special released on 1 January 2022 on HBO Max. It is a reunion special for the cast and crew of the Harry Potter film series, marking the twentieth anniversary of the series' first instalment, The Philosopher's Stone. It was produced by Warner Bros. Unscripted Television in association with Warner Horizon and executive produced by Casey Patterson.
The films' protagonist trio Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, and Emma Watson appear throughout the special, along with surviving principal cast members Helena Bonham Carter, Robbie Coltrane, Ralph Fiennes, Jason Isaacs, Gary Oldman, Tom Felton, James Phelps, Oliver Phelps, Mark Williams, Bonnie Wright, Alfred Enoch, Ian Hart, Toby Jones, Matthew Lewis, and Evanna Lynch, producer David Heyman, and filmmakers Chris Columbus, Alfonso Cuarón, Mike Newell, and David Yates. The special was Coltrane's final on-screen appearance prior to his death on 14 October 2022.

Cast

The reunion features clips of and pays tribute to cast members who have since died, including Helen McCrory, Alan Rickman, John Hurt, Richard Griffiths, and Richard Harris.

Production

Development
In November 2021, Warner Bros. announced Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts, a retrospective special featuring the cast and filmmakers of the Harry Potter film series to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the release of the series' first instalment, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001). The special is produced by Warner Bros. Unscripted Television in association with Warner Horizon and executive produced by Casey Patterson.

Absence of J. K. Rowling
J. K. Rowling—the author of the original Harry Potter book series, who had a significant role in the production of the film adaptations—is largely absent from the special. She appears for under thirty seconds in archival footage from her interviews in 2019 and is mentioned by some of the special's interviewees, but no advertisements for the special featured images of her. Critics speculated that this was due to her stance on transgender issues and, as The Daily Telegraph's Ed Power put it, consequent "public rebuke by the series' stars". However, Entertainment Weekly reported that Rowling had been invited to appear but she felt that the archival footage was sufficient, with "sources close to the situation" denying that the author's decision was related to the controversy surrounding her remarks on transgender issues.

Filming
The special was filmed at Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter in Leavesden, England.

Corrections
In the initial release, a childhood image of Emma Roberts was mistakenly presented as an image of a young Watson, and Oliver and James Phelps are mislabelled as each other. By 3 January, these errors had been corrected in a new version.

Music
The music for the TV Special was composed by Charlie Mole. In addition, John Williams, who scored the first three Harry Potter films, re-recorded two of his compositions ("Hedwig’s Theme" and "Harry’s Wondrous World") for the special with the Synchron Stage Orchestra in Vienna, conducted by James Seymour Brett.

Release
Return to Hogwarts was released on HBO Max on 1 January 2022. The special aired on 10 April 2022 on TBS, and on Cartoon Network ahead of the release of Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore. It was later released on both Blu-ray and DVD on 9 August 2022.

Reception

Critical response
On the review-aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the special has a 93% approval rating with an average rating of 7.5/10, based on 27 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, "Affectionate and revealing, Return to Hogwarts offers an intimate glimpse into how the making of the Harry Potter franchise delivered its own special kind of magic for those involved." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 65 out of 100 based on 11 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

Accolades


================================================================================

# Harry Potter: A History of Magic

Harry Potter: A History of Magic is an exhibition of real-world magical artefacts and history presented alongside artefacts from the development of J.K. Rowling's fictional Harry Potter series. The exhibition originally opened at the British Library in 2017, as part of celebrations for the 20th anniversary of the publication of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. It is also available online through the Google Arts & Culture platform and was presented at the New-York Historical Society beginning in October 2018. Two official publications, Harry Potter: A History of Magic and Harry Potter: A Journey Through a History of Magic, along with a BBC television documentary, were created in conjunction with the exhibition.

The exhibitions

British Library exhibition
The exhibition at the British Library was open to the public from 20 October 2017 to 28 February 2018. The British Library also installed smaller displays on the same topic in 22 libraries across the United Kingdom. The British exhibition was a collaboration between the British Library, Bloomsbury (publisher of the Harry Potter series in the United Kingdom), and author J. K. Rowling. Among the real-world artefacts displayed were a Ripley Scroll (which describes the process of making a philosopher's stone) and Nicolas Flamel's headstone. Items dealing with Rowling's fictional Wizarding World included original drafts of the Harry Potter books and original artwork by Rowling. The artefacts were organized around class topics (such as Herbology and Care of Magical Creatures) offered at Hogwarts, a wizarding school featured in the Harry Potter series.

Google Arts & Culture exhibition
On 27 February 2018, just as the British Library was preparing to close the original exhibition, Google made the exhibition available online world-wide using their Google Arts & Culture platform. The online exhibition is an interactive recreation of the British Library version of the exhibition, including images of the same artefacts. The exhibition features 360 panoramic Street View style photos which were produced by London based panoramic photographer, Ben Smart.

New-York Historical Society exhibition
The New-York Historical Society's version of the exhibition opened New York City on 5 October 2018 (through 27 January 2019), as part of 20th anniversary celebrations of the publication of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone in the United States. While some of the same artefacts from the British exhibition were displayed, additional materials dealing with real-word magic in the Americas were shown. Scholastic Corporation (publisher of the Harry Potter series in the United States) collaborated on the exhibit, and artefacts dealing with the series' publication in the US were displayed.

Companion publications

Harry Potter: A History of Magic
The Bloomsbury edition of Harry Potter: A History of Magic (ISBN 9781408890769) is a 256-page hardcover book geared towards older readers (as opposed to the exhibition's other official publication). As a companion to the exhibition, the book contains images and descriptions of all 150 artefacts displayed in the British exhibition, along with short essays comparing real-word magical practices to those found in the Harry Potter series. Included are images of several pieces of artwork by Rowling and a few pages of drafts for various Harry Potter books. Like the exhibition, the book is divided into chapters based on classes at Hogwarts. It was published 20 October 2017, in conjunction with the opening of the exhibition at the British Library, and is available in the United Kingdom. With the release of the physical book, a digital e-book edition (ISBN 9781781109472) was published by Pottermore. Pottermore also published an enhanced e-book edition available through Apple's iBooks. On 18 October 2018 Bloomsbury published a softcover version of this book (ISBN 9781526607072).
A Scholastic edition (ISBN 9781338311501) was published in October 2018, in conjunction with the opening of the exhibition at the New-York Historical Society, and is available in the United States. With the release of the physical book, a digital e-book edition (ISBN 9781781102596) was published by Pottermore. The Scholastic edition of this publication was modified to coincide with the artefacts displayed in the New York exhibition.

Harry Potter: A Journey Through a History of Magic
The Bloomsbury edition of Harry Potter: A Journey Through a History of Magic (ISBN 9781408890776) is a 144-page softcover book geared towards younger audiences. This book also includes images and descriptions of artefacts displayed in the British exhibition, including some of Rowling's original works, although due to its smaller size there are less artefacts featured than found in the exhibition's other official publication. The text of this book is written for readers eight years of age and older. It was published 20 October 2017, in conjunction with the opening of the exhibition at the British Library, and is available in the United Kingdom. With the release of the physical book, a digital e-book edition (ISBN 9781781109496) was published by Pottermore.
The Scholastic edition of Harry Potter: A Journey Through a History of Magic (ISBN 9781338267105) was published in the United States on 20 October 2017, in conjunction with the opening of the British exhibition. With the release of the physical book, a digital e-book edition (ISBN 9781781109502) was published by Pottermore. Other than a different cover, Scholastic did not make any major edits to the US version of this book.

Harry Potter: A History of Magic (Television Documentary)
The BBC produced an hour-long television documentary examining the British exhibition. Titled Harry Potter: A History of Magic, the documentary premiered in the United Kingdom on BBC Two on 28 October 2017. It is narrated by Imelda Staunton, who played Dolores Umbridge in the Harry Potter film series, and was released 27 November 2017 on region 2 DVD.
The documentary premiered in the United States on 11 April 2018 on The CW. The region 1 DVD was released on 30 October 2018 and it is also available on Amazon Prime Video and the BBC Select streaming channel.

Audiobook
An audiobook of the same name was released in 2018. The audiobook is narrated by Natalie Dormer – with input from a host of experts – and reveals some of the hidden stories behind real-world magic and explores some of J.K. Rowling's magical inventions alongside their folkloric, cultural and historical forebears.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets is a fantasy novel by British author J. K. Rowling. The second novel in the Harry Potter series, it chronicles Harry Potter's second year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. After several residents of the school are attacked and magically immobilised, Harry and his friends Ron and Hermione investigate.
The book was published in the United Kingdom on 2 July 1998 by Bloomsbury and later in the United States on 2 June 1999 by Scholastic Inc. Although Rowling says she found it difficult to finish the book, it won high praise and awards from critics, young readers, and the book industry, although some critics thought the story was perhaps too frightening for younger children. Much like with other novels in the series, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets triggered religious debates; some religious authorities have condemned its use of magical themes, whereas others have praised its emphasis on self-sacrifice and the way one's character is the result of one's choices.
Several commentators have noted that personal identity is a strong theme in the book and that it addresses issues of racism through the treatment of non-human, non-magical, and non-living people. Some commentators regard the story's diary that writes back as a warning against uncritical acceptance of information from sources whose motives and reliability cannot be checked. Institutional authority is portrayed as self-serving and incompetent.
The film adaptation of the novel, released in 2002, became (at the time) the fifth highest-grossing film ever and received generally favourable reviews. Video games loosely based on Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets were also released for several platforms, and most obtained favourable reviews.

Plot
While spending the summer with the Dursleys, the twelve-year-old Harry Potter is visited by Dobby, a house-elf. Dobby says Harry is in danger and must promise not to return to Hogwarts. When Harry refuses, Dobby uses magic to destroy a pudding made by Aunt Petunia. Believing that Harry created the mess, Uncle Vernon locks him in his room. The Ministry of Magic sends a notice accusing Harry of performing underage magic and threatening to expel him from Hogwarts if it happens again.
The Weasley brothers Ron, Fred, and George arrive in their father's flying car and take Harry to their home. When Harry and the Weasleys go to Diagon Alley for school supplies, they meet Gilderoy Lockhart, a celebrity author who is the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. At King's Cross station, Harry and Ron cannot enter Platform 9¾ to board the Hogwarts Express, so they fly to Hogwarts in the enchanted car.
During the school year, Harry hears a strange voice emanating from the castle walls. Argus Filch's cat is found magically immobilised, along with a warning scrawled on the wall: "The Chamber of Secrets has been opened. Enemies of the heir, beware". Harry learns that the Chamber supposedly houses a monster that attacks Muggle-born students, and which only the Heir of Slytherin can control. During a Quidditch match, a rogue Bludger strikes Harry, breaking his arm. Professor Lockhart botches an attempt to mend the injury, which sends Harry to the hospital wing. Dobby visits Harry and reveals that he jinxed the Bludger and sealed the portal at King's Cross. He also tells Harry that house-elves are bound to serve a master, and cannot be freed unless their master gives them clothing.
After another attack from the monster, students attend a defensive duelling class. During the class, Harry displays the rare ability to speak Parseltongue, the language of snakes. Moaning Myrtle, a ghost who haunts a bathroom, shows Harry and his friends a diary that was left in her stall. It belonged to Tom Riddle, a student who witnessed another student's death when the Chamber was last opened. During the next attack by the monster, Hermione Granger is immobilised.
Harry and Ron learn that the monster is a Basilisk, a gigantic snake that can kill victims with a direct gaze and immobilise them with an indirect gaze. Harry realizes the Basilisk is producing the voice that he hears in the walls. After Ron's sister Ginny is abducted and taken into the Chamber, Harry and Ron discover the Chamber entrance in Myrtle's bathroom. When they force Lockhart to enter with them, he confesses that the stories he told of his heroic adventures are fabrications. He attempts to erase the boys' memories, but his spell backfires and obliterates his own memory.
Harry finds Ginny unconscious in the Chamber. A manifestation of Tom Riddle appears and reveals that Riddle is Lord Voldemort and the Heir of Slytherin. After explaining that he opened the Chamber, Riddle summons the Basilisk to kill Harry. Dumbledore's phoenix Fawkes arrives, bringing Harry the Sorting Hat. While Fawkes blinds the Basilisk, Harry pulls the Sword of Gryffindor from the Hat. He slays the serpent, then stabs the diary with a Basilisk fang, destroying it and the manifestation of Riddle. Later, Harry liberates Dobby by tricking his master, Lucius Malfoy, into giving him clothing. At the end of the novel, the immobilised students are cured and Gryffindor wins the House Cup.

Publication and reception

Development
J. K. Rowling found it difficult to finish Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets because she was afraid it would not live up to the expectations raised by Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. After delivering the manuscript to Bloomsbury Publishing on schedule, she took it back for six weeks of revision.
In early drafts of the book, the ghost Nearly Headless Nick sang a self-composed song explaining his condition and the circumstances of his unknown death. This was cut because the book's editor did not care for the poem, which has been subsequently published as an extra on J. K. Rowling's official website. The family background of Dean Thomas was removed because Rowling and her publishers considered it an "unnecessary digression" and she considered Neville Longbottom's own journey of discovery "more important to the central plot".
Gilderoy Lockhart's character was inspired by an acquaintance of Rowling who was, in her words, "even more objectionable than his fictional counterpart" and "used to tell whopping great fibs about his past life, all of them designed to demonstrate what a wonderful, brave and brilliant person he was".

Publication
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets was published in the UK on 2 July 1998 and in the US on 2 June 1999. It immediately took first place in UK bestseller lists, displacing popular authors such as John Grisham, Tom Clancy and Terry Pratchett, and making Rowling the first author to win the British Book Awards Children's Book of the Year for two years in succession. In June 1999, it went straight to the top of three US bestseller lists, including in The New York Times.
First edition printings had several errors, which were fixed in subsequent reprints. Initially, Albus Dumbledore said Lord Voldemort was the last remaining ancestor of Salazar Slytherin instead of his descendant. Gilderoy Lockhart's book on werewolves is entitled Weekends with Werewolves at one point and Wanderings with Werewolves later in the book.

Critical response
In The Times, Deborah Loudon described it as a children's book that would be "re-read into adulthood" and highlighted its "strong plots, engaging characters, excellent jokes and a moral message which flows naturally from the story". Fantasy author Charles de Lint agreed, and considered the second Harry Potter book to be just as good as Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, a rare achievement among series of books. Thomas Wagner regarded the plot as very similar to that of the first book, based on searching for a secret hidden under the school. However, he enjoyed the parody of celebrities and their fans that centres round Gilderoy Lockhart, and approved of the book's handling of racism. Tammy Nezol found the book more disturbing than its predecessor, particularly in the rash behaviour of Harry and his friends after Harry withholds information from Dumbledore, and in the human-like behaviour of the mandrakes used to make a potion that cures immobilisation. Nevertheless, she considered the second story as enjoyable as the first.
Mary Stuart thought the final conflict with Tom Riddle in the Chamber was almost as scary as in some of Stephen King's works, and perhaps too strong for young or timid children. She commented that "there are enough surprises and imaginative details thrown in as would normally fill five lesser books." Like other reviewers, she thought the book would give pleasure to both children and adult readers. According to Philip Nel, the early reviews gave unalloyed praise while the later ones included some criticisms, although they still agreed that the book was outstanding.
Writing after all seven books had been published, Graeme Davis regarded Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets as the weakest of the series, and agreed that the plot structure is much the same as in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. He described Fawkes's appearance to arm Harry and then to heal him as a deus ex machina: he said that the book does not explain how Fawkes knew where to find Harry; and Fawkes's timing had to be very precise, as arriving earlier would probably have prevented the battle with the basilisk, while arriving later would have been fatal to Harry and Ginny.

Awards and honours
Rowling's Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets was the recipient of several awards. The American Library Association listed the novel among its 2000 Notable Children's Books,
as well as its Best Books for Young Adults. In 1999, Booklist named Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets as one of its Editors' Choices, and as one of its Top Ten Fantasy Novels for Youth. The Cooperative Children's Book Center made the novel a CCBC Choice of 2000 in the "Fiction for Children" category. The novel also won Children's Book of the Year British Book Award, and was shortlisted for the 1998 Guardian Children's Award and the 1998 Carnegie Award.
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets won the Nestlé Smarties Book Prize 1998 Gold Medal in the 9–11 years division. Rowling also won two other Nestlé Smarties Book Prizes for Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. The Scottish Arts Council awarded their first ever Children's Book Award to the novel in 1999, and it was also awarded Whitaker's Platinum Book Award in 2001. In 2003, the novel was listed at number 23 on the BBC's survey The Big Read.

Main themes
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets continues to examine what makes a person who they are, which began in the first book. As well as maintaining that Harry's identity is shaped by his decisions rather than any aspect of his birth, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets provides contrasting characters who try to conceal their true personalities: as Tammy Nezol puts it, Gilderoy Lockhart "lacks any real identity" because he is nothing more than a charming liar. Riddle also complicates Harry's struggle to understand himself by pointing out the similarities between the two: "both half-bloods, orphans raised by Muggles, probably the only two Parselmouths to come to Hogwarts since the great Slytherin."
Opposition to class, death and its impacts, experiencing adolescence, sacrifice, love, friendship, loyalty, prejudice, and racism are constant themes of the series. In Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets Harry's consideration and respect for others extends to the lowly, non-human Dobby and the ghost Nearly Headless Nick. According to Marguerite Krause, achievements in the novel depend more on ingenuity and hard work than on natural talents.
Edward Duffy, associate professor at Marquette University, says that one of the central characters of Chamber of Secrets is Tom Riddle's enchanted diary, which takes control of Ginny Weasley – just as Riddle planned. Duffy suggests Rowling intended this as a warning against passively consuming information from sources that have their own agendas. Although Bronwyn Williams and Amy Zenger regard the diary as more like an instant messaging or chat room system, they agree about the dangers of relying too much on the written word, which can camouflage the author, and they highlight a comical example, Lockhart's self-promoting books.
Antonello Fabio Caterino, an Italian forensic linguist and philologist, stated that the conversations Harry and Voldemort had through the diary could be considered a "modern transposition" of Petrarca's Secretum, a text often compared to a diary, which details an imaginary dialogue between the writer and Augustine of Hippo. Caterino analysed similarities between themes found in both books, starting from the idea of a fragmented soul: Harry and Voldemort are both seeking Voldemort's Horcruxes, which are fragments of his soul, and Petrarca also focuses on the concept animae fragmenta, meaning soul's fragments.
Immorality and the portrayal of authority as negative are significant themes in the novel. Marguerite Krause states there are few absolute moral rules in Harry Potter's world, for example Harry prefers to tell the truth, but lies whenever he considers it necessary – very like his enemy Draco Malfoy. At the end of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Dumbledore retracts his promise to punish Harry and Ron if they break any more school rules – after Professor McGonagall estimates they have broken over 100 – and lavishly rewards them for ending the threat from the Chamber of Secrets. Krause further states that authority figures and political institutions receive little respect from Rowling. William MacNeil of Griffith University, Queensland, Australia states that the Minister for Magic is presented as a mediocrity. In his article "Harry Potter and the Secular City", Ken Jacobson suggests the Ministry as a whole is portrayed as a tangle of bureaucratic empires, saying that "Ministry officials busy themselves with minutiae (e.g. standardising cauldron thicknesses) and coin politically correct euphemisms like 'non-magical community' (for Muggles) and 'memory modification' (for magical brainwashing)."
This novel implies it begins in 1992: the cake for Nearly-Headless Nick's 500th deathday party bears the words "Sir Nicholas De Mimsy Porpington died 31 October 1492".

Connection to Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Chamber of Secrets has many links with the sixth book of the series, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. In fact, Half-Blood Prince was the working title of Chamber of Secrets and Rowling says she originally intended to present some "crucial pieces of information" in the second book, but ultimately felt "this information's proper home was book six". Some objects that play significant roles in Half-Blood Prince first appear in Chamber of Secrets: the Hand of Glory and the opal necklace that are on sale in Borgin and Burkes; a Vanishing Cabinet in Hogwarts that is damaged by Peeves the Poltergeist; and Tom Riddle's diary, which is later revealed to be a Horcrux. The plot of Half-Blood Prince also strongly features a motif of a mysterious book that conveys information both useful and dangerous (Professor Snape’s old Potions textbook from his time in school). Additionally, these two novels are the ones with the most focus on Harry's relationship with Ginny Weasley.

Adaptations

Film

The film version of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets was released in 2002. Chris Columbus directed the film, and the screenplay was written by Steve Kloves. It became the third film to exceed $600 million in international box office sales, preceded by Titanic, released in 1997, and Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, released in 2001. The film was nominated for a Saturn Award for the Best Fantasy Film, According to Metacritic, the film version of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets received "generally favourable reviews" with an average score of 63%, and another aggregator, Rotten Tomatoes, gave it a score of 82%.

Video games

Five unique video games by different developers were released between 2002 and 2003 by Electronic Arts, loosely based on the book:


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets is a 2002 fantasy film directed by Chris Columbus from a screenplay by Steve Kloves. It is based on the 1998 novel Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets by J. K. Rowling. Produced by David Heyman, it is the sequel to Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001) and the second instalment in the Harry Potter film series. The film stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, with Rupert Grint and Emma Watson as his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger respectively. The film follows Harry's second year at Hogwarts, where the Heir of Salazar Slytherin opens the Chamber of Secrets, unleashing a monster that petrifies the school's students.
The film was released in the United Kingdom and the United States on 15 November 2002, by Warner Bros. Pictures. It became a critical and commercial success, grossing $878 million worldwide and becoming the second-highest-grossing film of 2002. The film was nominated for several awards, including the BAFTA Award for Best Production Design, Best Sound, and Best Special Visual Effects. It was followed by Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004).

Plot
While Harry Potter spends the summer with the Dursleys, a house-elf named Dobby warns Harry of an "impending danger" at Hogwarts. He attempts to prevent him returning to Hogwarts by sabotaging an important dinner with Vernon Dursley's client. Vernon tries to prevent his departure in retaliation, but his friend Ron Weasley and his brothers Fred and George rescue him in their father's flying car. Harry meets up with Hermione Granger in Diagon Alley, where they meet Hogwarts' new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Gilderoy Lockhart, along with Draco Malfoy and his father, Lucius, who Harry sees slip a book into Ginny Weasley's cauldron.
After being blocked from entering Platform Nine and Three-Quarters at King's Cross railway station, Harry and Ron fly the car to Hogwarts, where they crash into the Whomping Willow. Ron's wand is broken, and they each receive detention, during which Harry hears a strange voice and subsequently finds caretaker Argus Filch's cat, Mrs Norris, petrified with a message written in blood: "The Chamber of Secrets has been opened, enemies of the heir... beware." One of Hogwarts' founders, Salazar Slytherin, supposedly constructed a secret Chamber containing a monster that only his heir can control, capable of purging the school of Muggle-borns. Suspecting Malfoy to be the heir, Harry, Ron, and Hermione plan to question him.
Harry's arm is broken by a rogue Bludger in a Quidditch match; while recovering, Dobby visits him and reveals he closed the barrier and made the rogue Bludger to force him to leave the school, in addition to the Chamber having been opened in the past. After students are found petrified, Harry is suspected of being the heir of Slytherin after communicating with a snake, an ability shared with Slytherin. Disguised as Crabbe and Goyle, using polyjuice potion, which they brew in a bathroom haunted by the ghost of Moaning Myrtle, Harry and Ron learn Malfoy is not the heir, but that a Muggle-born girl died when the Chamber was last opened 50 years ago. Harry finds an enchanted diary owned by a former student Tom Marvolo Riddle, who blames a young Rubeus Hagrid for opening the Chamber, leading to his expulsion.
When Hermione is petrified, Harry and Ron question Hagrid, who is taken to Azkaban by Minister of Magic Cornelius Fudge, while Lucius forces the school governors to remove Dumbledore from office. Hagrid discreetly tells the boys to "follow the spiders"; they venture into the Forbidden Forest and meet Hagrid's spider, Aragog, who reveals Hagrid's innocence and provides another clue to the Chamber's monster. A book page the boys find in Hermione's hand identifies the monster as a basilisk, a giant serpent that kills people who make direct eye contact; the petrified victims only saw it indirectly.
Ginny is taken into the Chamber, and the teachers nominate Lockhart to save her; Harry and Ron find Lockhart preparing to flee and realize he is a fraud. Deducing that Myrtle was the Muggle-born girl that the basilisk killed, they find the Chamber's entrance in the bathroom she haunts. Once inside, Lockhart tries to erase Harry and Ron's memories and take the credit, but his spell backfires when he uses Ron's broken wand, erasing his own memory and causing a cave-in, separating Harry from Ron and Lockhart.
Harry enters the Chamber alone and finds Ginny unconscious and Riddle, Slytherin's heir and Voldemort's younger self, who reveals he used the diary to manipulate Ginny into reopening the Chamber. Harry expresses his loyalty to Dumbledore, whose pet phoenix Fawkes arrives with the Sorting Hat. Riddle summons the basilisk, who Fawkes blinds, and the Sorting Hat produces the Sword of Gryffindor, which Harry uses to kill the basilisk after a battle, but is poisoned by one of its fangs. Despite being injured, Harry stabs the diary with the basilisk fang, destroying Riddle and reviving Ginny. Harry is healed by Fawkes' tears and returns to Hogwarts with his friends and a baffled Lockhart. Harry learns that Dobby's master is Lucius, whom he accuses of planting the diary in Ginny's cauldron, and tricks him into freeing Dobby. Dumbledore is reinstated as headmaster, the basilisk's victims are healed, Hermione reunites with her friends, and Hagrid is released from Azkaban.

Cast

Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter: A 12-year-old British wizard famous for surviving his parents' murder at the hands of the evil wizard Lord Voldemort as an infant, who now enters his second year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley: Harry's best friend at Hogwarts and one of the youngest members of the Weasley family.
Emma Watson as Hermione Granger: Harry's other best friend and the trio's brains.
Kenneth Branagh as Gilderoy Lockhart: A celebrity author and the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts.
John Cleese as Nearly Headless Nick: The ghost of Gryffindor House.
Robbie Coltrane as Rubeus Hagrid: The half-giant gamekeeper at Hogwarts who is framed for opening the Chamber of Secrets and is sent to Azkaban on Lucius Malfoy's orders. Martin Bayfield portrays a young Hagrid with his voice dubbed by Coltrane.
Warwick Davis as Filius Flitwick: The Charms teacher at Hogwarts and head of Ravenclaw House.
Richard Griffiths as Vernon Dursley: Harry's abusive Muggle uncle, who despises wizards and works as a drill company director.
Richard Harris as Albus Dumbledore: The headmaster of Hogwarts and one of the greatest wizards of the age. This was Harris' final live-action film; he died shortly before it was released. The role of Dumbledore was played by Michael Gambon from Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban onwards.
Jason Isaacs as Lucius Malfoy: Draco's father and a former Hogwarts pupil of Slytherin House who now works as a school governor at Hogwarts. Isaacs gave Lucius a whiny tone of voice based on that of the Child Catcher of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, whose voice had resonated with Isaacs throughout his childhood for the character scaring him. Isaacs also provided the voice of the Basilisk.
Maggie Smith as Minerva McGonagall: The Transfiguration teacher at Hogwarts and head of Gryffindor House.
Gemma Jones as Madame Pomfrey: The Hogwarts nurse.
Alan Rickman as Severus Snape: The Potions teacher at Hogwarts and head of Slytherin House.
Fiona Shaw as Petunia Dursley: Harry's Muggle aunt.
Julie Walters as Molly Weasley: Ron's mother.
Bonnie Wright as Ginny Weasley
Several actors from Philosopher's Stone reprise their roles in this film. Harry Melling portrays Dudley Dursley, Harry's Muggle cousin. James and Oliver Phelps play Fred and George Weasley, Ron's twin brothers; and Chris Rankin appears as Percy Weasley, Ron's other brother and a Gryffindor prefect. Tom Felton plays Draco Malfoy, Harry's rival in Slytherin, while Jamie Waylett and Joshua Herdman appear as Crabbe and Goyle, Draco's minions. Matthew Lewis, Devon Murray and Alfred Enoch play Neville Longbottom, Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas, respectively, three Gryffindor students in Harry's year. David Bradley portrays Argus Filch, Hogwarts' caretaker, and Sean Biggerstaff as Oliver Wood, the Keeper and Captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team. Leslie Phillips voices the Sorting Hat. Eleanor Columbus, Chris Columbus's daughter, appears as 	Susan Bones, Edward Randell appears as 	Justin Finch-Fletchley, 	Charlotte Skeoch as Hannah Abbott, and Louis Doyle as Ernie MacMillan; Hufflepuff students. Emily Dale appears as Katie Bell, Rochelle Douglas as Alicia Spinnet, and Danielle Tabor as Angelina Johnson; the Chasers of the Gryffindor Quidditch team. Jamie Yeats appears as Marcus Flint; the Captain of the Slytherin Quidditch team, Scott Fearn as Adrian Pucey; and David Holmes, David Massam, and Tony Christian appear as Slytherin quidditch players. Gemma Padley appears as 	Penelope Clearwater, a Ravenclaw student and Percy's girlfriend.	Luke Youngblood plays Lee Jordan, the Quidditch commentator.
Christian Coulson appears as Tom Marvolo Riddle, a former Hogwarts pupil, later revealed to be a manifestation of a teenage Lord Voldemort. Mark Williams portrays Arthur Weasley, Ron's father. Shirley Henderson plays Moaning Myrtle, a Hogwarts ghost. When she auditioned to play a 14-year-old Moaning Myrtle, Henderson was 37 years old, but the casting director encouraged her to attend the audition anyway and keep her age a secret. Miriam Margolyes appears as Pomona Sprout, Hogwarts' Herbology professor and head of Hufflepuff House. Hugh Mitchell portrays Colin Creevey, a first year student who is a fan of Harry's. Robert Hardy appears as Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic. Toby Jones voices Dobby, a House-elf, while Julian Glover voices Aragog, an acromantula. Jim Norton appears as Mr. Mason and Veronica Clifford appears as Mrs. Mason. Alfred Burke appears as Headmaster Dippet in a memory of Tom Riddle. Daisy Bates, David Tysall and Peter Taylor appear as moving pictures. Helen Stuart plays Millicent Bulstrode, a Slytherin girl.
Hugh Grant was rumoured to be the first choice to play the role of Gilderoy Lockhart, but due to reported scheduling conflicts with Two Weeks Notice, he was unable to play the character. Columbus later denied that Grant had been considered and stated that they had not met. Alan Cumming and Rupert Everett were also considered for Lockhart. Cumming backed out over a salary dispute. Jason Isaacs also auditioned for Lockhart, but was offered for the role of Lucius Malfoy instead. He was reluctant to take the role because he was already signed on to play Captain Hook in Peter Pan (2003), but his family convinced him to take the role and accepted it. Before Coulson was cast as Tom Riddle, James McAvoy and Eddie Redmayne – who later played Newt Scamander in the Fantastic Beasts films – auditioned for the role.

Production

Costume and set design

Production designer Stuart Craig returned for the sequel to design new elements previously not seen in the first film. He designed the Burrow based on Arthur Weasley's interest in Muggles, built vertically out of architectural salvage. Mr. Weasley's flying car was created from a 1962 Ford Anglia 105E. The Chamber of Secrets, measuring over 76 metres (249 ft) long and 36.5 metres (119.8 ft) wide, was the biggest set created for the saga. Dumbledore's office, which houses the Sorting Hat and the Sword of Gryffindor, was also built for the film.
Lindy Hemming was the costume designer for Chamber of Secrets. She retained many of the characters' already established appearances, and chose to focus on the new characters introduced in the sequel. Gilderoy Lockhart's wardrobe incorporated bright colours, in contrast with the "dark, muted or sombre colours" of the other characters. Branagh said, "We wanted to create a hybrid between a period dandy and someone who looked as if they could fit into Hogwarts." Hemming also perfected Lucius Malfoy's costume. One of the original concepts was for him to wear a pinstripe suit, but was changed to furs and a snake head cane in order to remark his aristocrat quality and to reflect a "sense of the old."

Filming
Principal photography began on 19 November 2001, only three days after the wide release of the first film. Second-unit work had started three weeks before, primarily for the flying car scene. Filming took place mainly at Leavesden Film Studios in Hertfordshire, as well as on the Isle of Man. King's Cross railway station was used as the filming location for Platform 9¾, though St Pancras railway station was used for the exterior shots. Gloucester Cathedral was used as the setting for Hogwarts School, along with Durham Cathedral, Alnwick Castle, Lacock Abbey, and the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford. The Burrow was built in Gypsy Lane, Abbots Langley, in front of Leavesden Studios.
Roger Pratt was brought on as director of photography for Chamber of Secrets, in order to give the film "a darker and edgier feel" than its predecessor, which reflected "the growth of the characters and the story." Director Chris Columbus opted to use handheld cameras to allow more freedom in movement, which he considered "a departure for [him] as a filmmaker." University of Cambridge linguistics professor Francis Nolan created Parseltongue, the language spoken by snakes in the film. Principal photography wrapped in July 2002.

Sound design
Due to the events that take place in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, the film's sound effects were much more expansive than in the previous instalment. Sound designer and supervising sound editor Randy Thom returned for the sequel using Pro Tools to complete the job, which included initial conceptions done at Skywalker Sound in California and primary work done at Shepperton Studios in England.
Thom wanted to give the Whomping Willow a voice, a deep growl for which he used his own voice slowed down, equalised and bass-boosted. For the mandrakes, he combined baby cries with female screams, in order to "make it just exotic enough so that you think, 'Hmm, I've never heard anything quite like that before.'"
Thom described the basilisk as a challenge, "because it's a giant snake, but it's also like a dragon — not many snakes have teeth like that. He had to hiss, he had to roar and there were times at the end when he was in pain." He mixed his own voice, tiger roars, and horse and elephant vocalizations.

Special and visual effects

Visual effects took nine months to make, until 9 October 2002, when the film was finished. Industrial Light & Magic, Mill Film, the Moving Picture Company (MPC), Cinesite and Framestore CFC handled the approximately 950 visual effect shots in the film. Jim Mitchell and Nick Davis served as visual effects supervisors. They were in charge of creating the CGI characters Dobby the House-elf, the Basilisk and the Cornish pixies, among others. Chas Jarrett from MPC served as CGI supervisor, overseeing the approach of any shot that contains CGI in the film. With a crew of 70 people, the company produced 251 shots, 244 of which made it to the film, from September 2001 to October 2002.
The visual effects team worked alongside creature effects supervisor Nick Dudman, who devised Fawkes the Phoenix, the Mandrakes, Aragog the Acromantula, and the first 25 feet (8 m) of the Basilisk. According to Dudman, Aragog was the most challenging character to create. The giant spider stood 9 feet (3 m) tall with an 18 feet (5 m) foot leg span, each of which had to be controlled by a different team member. The whole creature weighed three quarters of a ton. It took over 15 people to operate the animatronic Aragog on set.
The Whomping Willow sequence required a combination of practical and visual effects. Special effects supervisor John Richardson and his team created mechanically operated branches to hit the flying car. A 1:3 scale set was built on stage at Shepperton Studios, which featured the fully-sized top third of the tree with a forced perspective to appear a height of over 100 feet (30 m) high. The courtyard and the tree were built in 3D. Some shots ended up being entirely digital. Jarret identified the rendering as "the biggest challenge" of the scene, because "there was just so much going on in [it] ... It was simply massive."

Music

John Williams, who composed the previous film's score, returned to score Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. Composing the film proved to be a difficult task, as Williams had just completed scoring Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones and Minority Report when work was scheduled to begin on Catch Me If You Can. Because of this, William Ross was brought in to arrange themes from the Philosopher's Stone into the new material that Williams was composing whenever he had the chance. Ross also conducted the scoring sessions with the London Symphony Orchestra. The soundtrack album was released on 12 November 2002.

Distribution

Marketing
Footage for the film began appearing online in the summer of 2002, with a teaser trailer debuting in cinemas with the release of Scooby-Doo that June. A video game based on the film was released in early November 2002 by Electronic Arts for several consoles, including GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox. The film also continued the merchandising success set by its predecessor, with reports of shortages on Lego's Chamber of Secrets tie-ins.

Home media
The film was originally released in the United Kingdom, United States and Canada on 11 April 2003 on both VHS and in a two-disc special edition fullscreen/widescreen DVD digipack, which included extended and deleted scenes and interviews. On 11 December 2007, the film was released on Blu-ray. An Ultimate Edition of the film was released on 8 December 2009, featuring new footage, TV spots, an extended version of the film with deleted scenes edited in, and a feature-length special Creating the World of Harry Potter Part 2: Characters. The film's extended version has a running time of about 174 minutes, which has previously been shown during certain television airings.

Reception

Box office
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets held its world premiere at Odeon Leicester Square on 3 November 2002, and was released in the United Kingdom and the United States on 15 November 2002. The film broke multiple records upon its opening. In the United States and Canada, the film opened to an $88.4 million opening weekend, playing on 8,515 screens at 3,682 theaters, making it the third-largest opening at the time, behind Spider-Man and its predecessor Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. The film would hold the record for having the largest number of screenings until it was surpassed by X2 the next year. It was also No. 1 at the box office for two non-consecutive weekends. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets was the second 2002 film to return to the number one spot, just after Mel Gibson's Signs. The film joined Die Another Day and The Santa Clause 2 to outperform the weak opening of Treasure Planet. Both Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and Die Another Day were the most recent films to reclaim the number one spot for six months until June 2003 when Finding Nemo became the next film to do so. In the United Kingdom, the film broke all opening records that were previously held by Philosopher's Stone. It made £18.9 million during its opening including previews and £10.9 million excluding previews. It went on to make £54.8 million in the UK; at the time, the fifth-biggest tally of all time in the region.
Internationally, the film earned $59.5 million during its opening weekend. The film earned $3.7 million in Japan, making it the highest opening of any film in the country until it was surpassed a year later by The Matrix Reloaded. In Malaysia, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets made a total of $474,000, breaking Eraser's record for having the country's biggest opening for any Warner Bros. Pictures film. It would go on to generate a total of $1.03 million in Singapore, becoming the second-highest film opening in the country, after The Lost World: Jurassic Park. Meanwhile, the film earned $3.1 million in Taiwan, surpassing The Mummy Returns by 16%. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets would then gross over $1.15 million in the Philippines, ranking as an industry high in the country only 5% bigger than Godzilla. The film made a total of $879.8 million worldwide in its original release and $926.2 million after re-releases. It was the second-highest-grossing film of 2002 worldwide behind The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, and the fourth highest-grossing film in the US and Canada that year with $262.6 million behind Spider-Man, The Two Towers, and Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones. However, it was the year's number one film outside of America, making $617.2 million compared to The Two Towers' $584.5 million.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 82% based on 237 reviews, with an average rating of 7.2/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Though perhaps more enchanting for younger audiences, Chamber of Secrets is nevertheless both darker and livelier than its predecessor, expanding and improving upon the first film's universe." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 63 out of 100, based on 35 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film a rare "A+", the only film in the Harry Potter series to receive such grade.
Roger Ebert gave The Chamber of Secrets 4 out of 4 stars, especially praising the set design. Entertainment Weekly commended the film for being better and darker than its predecessor: "And among the things this Harry Potter does very well indeed is deepen the darker, more frightening atmosphere for audiences. This is as it should be: Harry's story is supposed to get darker". Richard Roeper praised Columbus' direction and the film's faithfulness to the book, saying: "Chris Columbus, the director, does a real wonderful job of being faithful to the story but also taking it into a cinematic era". Variety said the film was excessively long, but praised it for being darker and more dramatic, saying that its confidence and intermittent flair to give it a life of its own apart from the books was something The Philosopher's Stone never achieved. The Guardian praised the darker storyline, but said that the acting could have been better.
A. O. Scott from The New York Times said: "instead of feeling stirred you may feel battered and worn down, but not, in the end, too terribly disappointed". Peter Travers from Rolling Stone condemned the film for being over-long and too faithful to the book: "Once again, director Chris Columbus takes a hat-in-hand approach to Rowling that stifles creativity and allows the film to drag on for nearly three hours". Kenneth Turan from the Los Angeles Times called the film a cliché which is "deja vu all over again, it's likely that whatever you thought of the first production – pro or con – you'll likely think of this one".

Accolades
Chamber of Secrets was nominated for three BAFTA Awards: Best Production Design, Best Sound, and Best Special Visual Effects. The film was also nominated for six Saturn Awards. It received two nominations at the inaugural Visual Effects Society Awards. The Broadcast Film Critics Association granted it the Best Family Film and Best Composer awards, and nominated it for Best Digital Acting Performance (for Toby Jones).


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is a fantasy novel by British author J. K. Rowling. It is the seventh and final novel in the Harry Potter series. It was released on 21 July 2007 in the United Kingdom by Bloomsbury Publishing, in the United States by Scholastic, and in Canada by Raincoast Books. The novel chronicles the events directly following Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005) and the final confrontation between the two wizards Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort.
Deathly Hallows shattered sales records upon release, surpassing marks set by previous titles of the Harry Potter series. It holds the Guinness World Record for most novels sold within 24 hours of release, with 8.3 million sold in the US and 2.65 million in the UK. Reception to the book was generally positive, and the American Library Association named it a "Best Book for Young Adults". A film adaptation of the novel was released in two parts: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 in November 2010 and Part 2 in July 2011.

Plot
The young wizard Harry Potter is about to turn seventeen. While being escorted to the Burrow by members of the Order of the Phoenix, the group is attacked by Death Eaters, who kill "Mad-Eye" Moody and Hedwig and injure George Weasley. Lord Voldemort attempts to kill Harry but fails.
After the Death Eaters and Lord Voldemort take over the Ministry of Magic, Harry and his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger begin searching for Voldemort's four remaining Horcruxes, which they hope to destroy and thus render him mortal. They learn that the locket Horcrux is in the possession of Dolores Umbridge at the Ministry of Magic. Harry and his friends infiltrate the Ministry and steal the locket from Umbridge, but are unable to destroy it. The locket's Dark magic affects Ron, who abandons Harry and Hermione. In Godric's Hollow, Harry and Hermione are attacked by Voldemort's snake Nagini, but manage to escape. One night, a Patronus guides Harry to a pond containing the Sword of Gryffindor. When he tries to recover it, the locket tightens around his neck, nearly drowning him. Ron returns and saves Harry, then destroys the Horcrux with the sword.
The three friends visit Xenophilius Lovegood, who tells them of the mythical objects known as the Deathly Hallows: the Elder Wand, the Resurrection Stone, and the Cloak of Invisibility. Xenophilius then alerts the Ministry of Magic to the presence of the trio in his home, and Harry and his friends flee. Soon after, they are captured by bounty hunters known as Snatchers, and are imprisoned in Malfoy Manor. Harry and Ron are thrown into the cellar with Dean Thomas, Luna Lovegood, Mr Ollivander, and Griphook the goblin, while the Death Eater Bellatrix Lestrange tortures Hermione. The house-elf Dobby helps the prisoners escape, but is killed in the process.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione break into Gringotts Bank and retrieve a Horcrux. Harry has visions which inform him that another Horcrux is hidden at Hogwarts. After the trio enters the school with the help of Aberforth Dumbledore, Voldemort prepares to assault the castle. As the Death Eaters enter the school and fight the professors and students, Ron and Hermione destroy the Horcrux from Gringotts. They then accompany Harry to the Room of Requirement, where they discover the next Horcrux, which is the Diadem of Ravenclaw. Draco Malfoy and his friends Crabbe and Goyle ambush them, and Crabbe casts a fire spell which grows out of control, killing him and destroying the Horcrux.
After stealing the Elder Wand from Albus Dumbledore's tomb, Voldemort is unable to make it obey him. Believing that Severus Snape is the master of the wand, Voldemort uses Nagini to mortally wound him. Before dying, Snape passes his memories to Harry, who views them in the Pensieve. The memories reveal that Snape loved Harry's mother, and acted as a double agent against Voldemort in an attempt to protect her. The memories also reveal that Dumbledore planned his own death at the hands of Snape so that Snape could gain Voldemort's trust, and that Harry himself became a Horcrux when Voldemort first tried to kill him. Now, Harry must die to render Voldemort mortal. On his way to surrender himself to Voldemort, Harry instructs Neville Longbottom to destroy Nagini.
Voldemort casts the Killing Curse on Harry, who then awakens in a dreamlike place. He is greeted by  Dumbledore, who explains that the curse destroyed the fragment of Voldemort's soul inside Harry, and that Harry can now return to life. Harry subsequently regains consciousness and pretends to be dead. Voldemort orders Hagrid to carry Harry's body back to Hogwarts, and demands that the professors and students surrender; however, Neville pulls the Sword of Gryffindor from the Sorting Hat and kills Nagini. The battle resumes, during which Molly Weasley kills Bellatrix. Harry reveals himself to be alive and duels with Voldemort, who casts another Killing Curse. However, the Elder Wand refuses to kill Harry because he is its true master (the wand passed to Draco when he disarmed Dumbledore before his death, then to Harry when he disarmed Draco at his manor). Voldemort's spell rebounds and kills him.
In the novel's epilogue, set nineteen years later, Harry and his friends see their children off to Hogwarts. Harry and Ginny, now married, have three children: James Sirius, Albus Severus, and Lily Luna. Ron and Hermione have a daughter named Rose and a son named Hugo.

Background

Series
The first novel in the Harry Potter series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was published by Bloomsbury Publishing in 1997. It was followed by Chamber of Secrets (1998), Prisoner of Azkaban (1999), Goblet of Fire (2000), Order of the Phoenix (2003) and Half-Blood Prince (2005).

Title
The title of the novel refers to three mythical objects featured in the story, which are collectively known as the "Deathly Hallows". Rowling announced the title in December 2006 through a Christmas-themed hangman puzzle on her website. Other titles that Rowling considered were Harry Potter and the Elder Wand and Harry Potter and the Peverell Quest.

Writing

J. K. Rowling completed the novel in January 2007 while staying at the Balmoral Hotel in Edinburgh. In a statement on her website, she said, "I've never felt such a mixture of extreme emotions in my life, never dreamed I could feel simultaneously heartbroken and euphoric." She compared her mixed feelings to those expressed by Charles Dickens in the preface of the 1850 edition of David Copperfield, "a two-years' imaginative task". "To which," she added, "I can only sigh, try seventeen years, Charles". She ended her message by saying "Deathly Hallows is my favourite, and that is the most wonderful way to finish the series".
When asked before publication about the forthcoming book, Rowling stated that she could not change the ending even if she wanted. "These books have been plotted for such a long time, and for six books now, that they're all leading a certain direction. So, I really can't". She also commented that the final volume related closely to the previous book in the series, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, "almost as though they are two-halves of the same novel". She said the last chapter of Deathly Hallows was written around 1990 as part of her earliest work on the series. She also revealed that the last sentence was originally something akin to "Only those who he loved could see his lightning scar". She changed the sentence to "All was well" because she wanted it to be clear that Harry Potter had triumphed over Lord Voldemort and that he would not have to face him again.

Release

Marketing and promotion
The launch of Deathly Hallows was celebrated by an all-night book signing and reading by Rowling at the Natural History Museum in London. The 1,700 guests in attendance were chosen by ballot. Rowling toured the United States in October 2007, where another event was held at Carnegie Hall in New York City with tickets allocated by sweepstake. Scholastic, the American publisher of the Harry Potter series, launched a multimillion-dollar "There will soon be 7" marketing campaign with a Knight Bus travelling to 40 libraries across the United States, online fan discussions and competitions, collectible bookmarks, tattoos, and the staged release of seven Deathly Hallows questions most debated by fans.
Rowling arranged with her publishers for a poster bearing the face of the missing British child Madeleine McCann to be made available to book sellers when Deathly Hallows was launched on 21 July 2007, and said that she hoped that the posters would be displayed prominently in shops all over the world. After it was announced that the novel would be released on 21 July 2007, Warner Bros. stated that the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix would be released on 13 July. In response, fans proclaimed July 2007 as the month of Harry Potter.

Spoiler embargo
Bloomsbury invested £10 million in an attempt to keep the book's contents secure until 21 July, the release date. Arthur Levine, US editor of the Harry Potter series, denied distributing any copies of Deathly Hallows in advance for press review, but two US papers published early reviews anyway. There was speculation that some shops would break the embargo and distribute copies of the book early, as the penalty imposed for previous instalments—that the distributor would not be supplied with any further copies of the series—would no longer be a deterrent.

Online leaks and early delivery
In the week before its release, a number of texts purporting to be genuine leaks appeared in various forms. On 16 July, a set of photographs representing all 759 pages of the US edition was leaked and was fully transcribed prior to the official release date. The photographs later appeared on websites and peer-to-peer networks, leading Scholastic to seek a subpoena in order to identify one source. This represented the most serious security breach in the Harry Potter series' history. Rowling and her lawyer confirmed that there were genuine online leaks. Reviews published in both The Baltimore Sun and The New York Times on 18 July 2007, corroborated many of the plot elements from this leak, and about one day prior to release, The New York Times confirmed that the main circulating leak was real.
Scholastic announced that approximately one-ten-thousandth (0.0001) of the US supply had been shipped early — interpreted to mean about 1,200 copies. One reader in Maryland received a copy of the book in the mail from DeepDiscount.com four days before it was launched, which evoked incredulous responses from both Scholastic and DeepDiscount. Scholastic initially reported that they were satisfied it had been a "human error" and would not discuss possible penalties; however, the following day Scholastic announced that it would be launching legal action against DeepDiscount.com and its distributor, Levy Home Entertainment. Scholastic filed for damages in Chicago's Circuit Court of Cook County, claiming that DeepDiscount engaged in a "complete and flagrant violation of the agreements that they knew were part of the carefully constructed release of this eagerly awaited book." Some of the early-release books soon appeared on eBay, in one case being sold to Publishers Weekly for US$250 from an initial price of US$18.

Price wars and other controversies
Asda, along with several other UK supermarkets, having already taken pre-orders for the book at a heavily discounted price, sparked a price war two days before the book's launch by announcing they would sell it for just £5 a copy. Other retail chains then also offered the book at discounted prices. At these prices the book became a loss leader. This caused uproar from traditional UK booksellers who argued they had no hope of competing in those conditions. Independent shops protested loudest, but even Waterstone's, the UK's largest dedicated chain bookstore, could not compete with the supermarket price. Some small bookstores hit back by buying their stock from the supermarkets rather than their wholesalers. Asda attempted to counter this by imposing a limit of two copies per customer to prevent bulk purchases. Philip Wicks, a spokesman for the UK Booksellers Association, said, "It is a war we can't even participate in. We think it's a crying shame that the supermarkets have decided to treat it as a loss-leader, like a can of baked beans." Michael Norris, an analyst at Simba Information, said: "You are not only lowering the price of the book. At this point, you are lowering the value of reading."
In Malaysia, a similar price war caused controversy regarding sales of the book. Four of the biggest bookstore chains in Malaysia, MPH Bookstores, Popular Bookstores, Times and Harris, decided to pull Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows off their shelves as a protest against Tesco and Carrefour hypermarkets. The retail price of the book in Malaysia was MYR 109.90, while the hypermarkets Tesco and Carrefour sold the book at MYR 69.90. The move by the bookstores was seen as an attempt to pressure the distributor Penguin Books to remove the books from the hypermarkets. However, as of 24 July 2007, the price war had ended, with the four bookstores involved resuming selling the books in their stores with discount. Penguin Books has also confirmed that Tesco and Carrefour were selling the book at a loss, urging them to practise good business sense and fair trade. The book's early Saturday morning release in Israel was criticised for violating Shabbat. Trade and Industry Minister Eli Yishai commented "It is forbidden, according to Jewish values and Jewish culture, that a thing like this should take place at 2 am on Saturday. Let them do it on another day." Yishai indicated that he would issue indictments and fines based on the Hours of Work and Rest Law.

Editions
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows was released in hardcover on 21 July 2007 and in paperback in the United Kingdom on 10 July 2008 and the United States on 7 July 2009. In SoHo, New York, there was a release party for the American paperback edition, with many games and activities. An "Adult Edition" with a different cover illustration was released by Bloomsbury on 21 July 2007. To be released simultaneously with the original US hardcover on 21 July with only 100,000 copies was a Scholastic deluxe edition, highlighting a new cover illustration by Mary GrandPré. In October 2010, Bloomsbury released a "Celebratory" paperback edition, which featured a foiled and starred cover. Lastly, on 1 November 2010, a "Signature" edition of the novel was released in paperback by Bloomsbury.

Translations

As with previous books in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows has been translated into many languages. The first translation to be released was the Ukrainian translation, on 25 September 2007 (as Гаррі Поттер і смертельні реліквії – Harry Potter i smertel'ni relikviji). The Swedish title of the book was revealed by Rowling as Harry Potter and the Relics of Death (Harry Potter och Dödsrelikerna), following a pre-release question from the Swedish publisher about the difficulty of translating the two words "Deathly Hallows" without having read the book. This is also the title used for the French translation (Harry Potter et les reliques de la mort), the Spanish translation (Harry Potter y las Reliquias de la Muerte), the Dutch translation (Harry Potter en de Relieken van de Dood), the Serbian translation (Хари Потер и реликвије смрти –  Hari Poter i relikvije smrti) and the Brazilian Portuguese translation (Harry Potter e as Relíquias da Morte). The first Polish translation was released with a new title: Harry Potter i Insygnia Śmierci – Harry Potter and the Insignia of Death. The Hindi translation Harry Potter aur Maut ke Tohfe (हैरी पॉटर और मौत के तोहफे), which means "Harry Potter and the Gifts of Death", was released by Manjul Publication in India on 27 June 2008. The Romanian version was released on 1 December 2007 using the title (Harry Potter și Talismanele Morții).

Reception

Critical response
The Baltimore Sun's critic, Mary Carole McCauley, noted that the book was more serious than the previous novels in the series and had more straightforward prose. Furthermore, reviewer Alice Fordham from The Times wrote that "Rowling's genius is not just her total realisation of a fantasy world, but the quieter skill of creating characters that bounce off the page, real and flawed and brave and lovable". Fordham concluded, "We have been a long way together, and neither Rowling nor Harry let us down in the end". The New York Times writer Michiko Kakutani agreed, praising Rowling's ability to make Harry both a hero and a character that can be related to.
Time magazine's Lev Grossman named it one of the Top 10 Fiction Books of 2007, ranking it at No. 8, and praised Rowling for proving that books can still be a global mass medium. Novelist Elizabeth Hand criticised that "... the spectacularly complex interplay of narrative and character often reads as though an entire trilogy's worth of summing-up has been crammed into one volume." In a starred review from Kirkus Reviews, the reviewer said, "Rowling has shown uncommon skill in playing them with and against each other, and also woven them into a darn good bildungsroman, populated by memorable characters and infused with a saving, irrepressible sense of fun". They also praised the second half of the novel, but criticised the epilogue, calling it "provocatively sketchy". In another review from The Times, reviewer Amanda Craig said that while Rowling was "not an original, high-concept author", she was "right up there with other greats of children's fiction". Craig went on to say that the novel was "beautifully judged, and a triumphant return to form", and that Rowling's imagination changed the perception of an entire generation, which "is more than all but a handful of living authors, in any genre, have achieved in the past half-century".
In contrast, Jenny Sawyer of The Christian Science Monitor said: "There is much to love about the Harry Potter series, from its brilliantly realised magical world to its multilayered narrative ... A story is about someone who changes. And, puberty aside, Harry doesn't change much. As envisioned by Rowling, he walks the path of good so unwaveringly that his final victory over Voldemort feels, not just inevitable, but hollow." In The New York Times, Christopher Hitchens compared the series to World War Two-era English boarding school stories, and while he wrote that "Rowling has won imperishable renown" for the series as a whole, he also stated that he disliked Rowling's use of deus ex machina, that the mid-book camping chapters are "abysmally long", and Voldemort "becomes more tiresome than an Ian Fleming villain". Catherine Bennett of The Guardian praised Rowling for putting small details from the previous books and making them large in Deathly Hallows, such as Grindelwald being mentioned on a Chocolate Frog Card in the first book. While she points out "as her critics say, Rowling is no Dickens", she says that Rowling "has willed into a fictional being, in every book, legions of new characters, places, spells, rules and scores of unimagined twists and subplots".
Stephen King criticised the reactions of some reviewers to the books, including McCauley, for jumping too quickly to surface conclusions of the work. He felt this was inevitable, because of the extreme secrecy before launch which did not allow reviewers time to read and consider the book, but meant that many early reviews lacked depth. Rather than finding the writing style disappointing, he felt it had matured and improved. He acknowledged that the subject matter of the books had become more adult, and that Rowling had clearly been writing with the adult audience firmly in mind since the middle of the series. He compared the works in this respect to Huckleberry Finn and Alice in Wonderland which achieved success and have become established classics, in part by appealing to the adult audience as well as children.

Sales

Sales for Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows were record-setting. The initial US print run for Deathly Hallows was 12 million copies, and more than a million were pre-ordered through Amazon and Barnes & Noble, 500 per cent higher than pre-sales had been for Half-Blood Prince. On 12 April 2007, Barnes & Noble declared that Deathly Hallows had broken its pre-order record, with more than 500,000 copies pre-ordered through its site. On opening day, a record 8.3 million copies were sold in the United States (over 96 per second), and 2.65 million copies in the United Kingdom. It holds the Guinness World record for fastest selling book of fiction in 24 hours for US sales. At WH Smith, sales reportedly reached a rate of 15 books sold per second. By June 2008, nearly a year after it was published, worldwide sales were reportedly around 44 million.

Awards and honours
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows has won several awards. In 2007, the book was named one of The New York Times 100 Notable Books, and one of its Notable Children's Books. The novel was named the best book of 2007, by Newsweek's critic Malcolm Jones. Publishers Weekly also listed Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows among their Best Books of 2007. Also in 2007 the book received the Andre Norton Award for Young Adult Science Fiction and Fantasy at the Nebula Awards. In 2008, the American Library Association named the novel one of its Best Books for Young Adults, and also listed it as a Notable Children's Book. Furthermore, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows received the 2008 Colorado Blue Spruce Book Award.

Themes

Death
In a 2006 interview, Rowling said that the main theme of the series is Harry dealing with death, which was influenced by her mother's death in 1990. Lev Grossman of Time asserted that the main theme of the series is the importance of continuing to love in the face of death.

Living in a corrupted society
Academics and journalists have developed many other interpretations of themes in the books, some more complex than others, and some including political subtexts. Themes such as normality, oppression, survival, and overcoming imposing odds have all been considered as prevalent throughout the series. Similarly, the theme of making one's way through adolescence and "going over one's most harrowing ordeals—and thus coming to terms with them" has also been considered. Rowling has stated that the books comprise "a prolonged argument for tolerance, a prolonged plea for an end to bigotry" and that also pass on a message to "question authority and ... not assume that the establishment or the press tells you all of the truth". Timothy Snyder in his 2017 book On Tyranny mentioned the novel as a recent example illustrating resistance to totalitarianism.

Christian allegories

The Harry Potter series has been criticised for supposedly supporting witchcraft and the occult. Before publication of Deathly Hallows, Rowling refused to speak out about her religion, stating, "If I talk too freely, every reader, whether 10 or 60, will be able to guess what's coming in the books". However, many have commented on Christian allegories that appear in Deathly Hallows. For example, Harry dies and then comes back to life to save mankind, like Christ. The location where this occurs is King's Cross. Rowling also stated that "my belief and my struggling with religious belief ... I think is quite apparent in this book", which is shown as Harry struggles with his faith in Dumbledore.

Deathly Hallows begins with a pair of epigraphs, one by Quaker leader William Penn and one from Aeschylus' The Libation Bearers. Of this, Rowling said "I really enjoyed choosing those two quotations because one is pagan, of course, and one is from a Christian tradition. I'd known it was going to be those two passages since Chamber was published. I always knew [that] if I could use them at the beginning of book seven then I'd cued up the ending perfectly. If they were relevant, then I went where I needed to go. They just say it all to me, they really do".
When Harry visits his parents' grave, the biblical reference "The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death" (1 Corinthians 15:26) is inscribed on the grave. The Dumbledores' family tomb also holds a biblical quote: "Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also", which is from Matthew 6:21. Rowling states, "They're very British books, so on a very practical note Harry was going to find biblical quotations on tombstones ... [but] I think those two particular quotations he finds on the tombstones at Godric's Hollow, they sum up – they almost epitomise the whole series".
Harry Potter pundit John Granger additionally noted that one of the reasons the Harry Potter books were so popular is their use of literary alchemy (similar to Romeo and Juliet, C. S. Lewis's Perelandra and Charles Dickens's A Tale of Two Cities) and vision symbolism. In this model, authors weave allegorical tales along the alchemical magnum opus. Since the medieval period, alchemical allegory has mirrored the passion, death and resurrection of Christ. While the entire series utilises symbols common in alchemy, the Deathly Hallows completes this cycle, tying themes of death, rebirth, and the Resurrection Stone to the principal motif of alchemical allegory, and topics presented in the first book of the series.

Adaptations

Films

The two-part film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows was directed by David Yates, written by Steve Kloves and produced by David Heyman, David Barron, and Rowling. Part 1 was released on 19 November 2010, with Part 2 following on 15 July 2011. Filming began in February 2009 and wrapped on 12 June 2010, with reshoots for Part 2's epilogue scene taking place in December 2010. Part 1 ended at Chapter 24 of the book, in which Voldemort acquires the Elder Wand. There were a few omissions, such as the appearances of Dean Thomas and Viktor Krum, and Peter Pettigrew's death. James Bernadelli of Reelviews said that the script stuck closest to the text since Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, yet this was met with negativity from some audiences as the film inherited "the book's own problems".

Audiobooks
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows was released simultaneously on 21 July 2007, in both the UK and the United States. The UK edition features the voice of Stephen Fry and runs about 24 hours while the US edition features the voice of Jim Dale and runs about 21 hours. Both Fry and Dale recorded 146 different and distinguishable character voices, and was the most recorded by an individual on an audiobook at the time. For his work on Deathly Hallows, Dale won the 2008 Grammy Award for the Best Spoken Word Album for Children. He also was awarded an Earphone Award by AudioFile, who claimed, "Dale has raised the bar on audiobook interpretation so high it's hard to imagine any narrator vaulting over it."

Video games
Two action-adventure video games were produced by Electronic Arts (EA) to coincide with the release of the film adaptations, as with each of the previous Harry Potter films. Part 1 was released on 16 November 2010, and Part 2 on 12 July 2011. Both games received a mixed to negative reaction from critics.

Subsequent works

The Tales of Beedle the Bard
On 4 December 2008, Rowling released The Tales of Beedle the Bard both in the UK and US. The Tales of Beedle the Bard is a spin-off of Deathly Hallows and contains fairy tales that are told to children in the "Wizarding World". The book includes five short stories, including "The Tale of the Three Brothers", which is the story of the Deathly Hallows. Amazon released an exclusive collector's edition of the book which is a replica of the book that Amazon purchased at auction in December 2007. Seven copies were auctioned off in London by Sotheby's. Each was illustrated and handwritten by Rowling and is 157 pages. It was bound in brown Moroccan leather and embellished with five hand-chased hallmarked sterling silver ornaments and mounted moonstones.

Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
In 2016, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child was released, a two-part play written by Jack Thorne based on an original story by Rowling, Thorne, and John Tiffany. Billed as the eighth story in the Harry Potter series, it picks up where the epilogue of Deathly Hallows left off, following an adult Harry Potter and his son, Albus Severus Potter. Previews of the play began at the Palace Theatre, London, on 7 June 2016, and it premiered on 30 July 2016. The play opened on Broadway on 21 April 2018 at the Lyric Theatre, with previews starting on 16 March 2018. Both parts of the stage play's script have been released in print and digital formats as Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Parts I & II. The first edition, the Special Rehearsal Edition, corresponded to the script used in the preview shows and was published on 31 July 2016, the date of Harry's birthday in the series and Rowling's birthday, as well. Since revisions to the script continued after the book was printed, an edited version was released on 25 July 2017, as the "Definitive Collector's Edition". According to CNN, this was the most preordered book of 2016.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts

Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts is an indoor steel roller coaster designed by Universal Creative and built by Intamin at Universal Studios Florida, a theme park located within the Universal Orlando Resort. Similar to dark rides, the roller coaster utilizes special effects in a controlled-lighting environment and also employs motion-based 3-D projection of both animation and live-action sequences to enhance the experience. The ride is themed to Gringotts Wizarding Bank, as depicted in the Harry Potter films, and became the flagship attraction for the expanded Wizarding World of Harry Potter – Diagon Alley when it opened on July 8, 2014.

History
Universal Parks & Resorts, in partnership with Warner Bros., officially announced the addition of The Wizarding World of Harry Potter to Islands of Adventure on May 31, 2007. The area officially opened in the Islands of Adventure theme park on June 18, 2010. The Harry Potter-themed area saw attendance at Islands of Adventure rise by as much as 36% in 2010. According to Jason Garcia of the Orlando Sentinel, this led to resort executives pondering "when to expand Wizarding World and how to keep business balanced between Islands and Universal Studios Florida". In April 2011, Brady MacDonald of the Los Angeles Times speculated that an area expansion would include the addition of Diagon Alley and a Gringotts-themed dark ride in place of the Lost Continent themed area in the park.
On December 6, 2011, Universal park officials confirmed that an expansion would take place and described it as "significant". The announcement was made four days after the park confirmed the removal of Jaws, a ride scheduled to close permanently on January 2, 2012. Demolition of the Jaws ride and the surrounding Amity area began soon after its closure. After the site was levelled, work began on land reclamation as well as the construction of a series of buildings, including a large show building for the Gringotts ride.
Further details about the expansion were announced on May 8, 2013, confirming new feature attractions themed after Diagon Alley and London. On January 23, 2014, the name of the area's flagship attraction was revealed to be Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts. It was later described as a "virtual reality roller coaster" by Entertainment Weekly as additional details were released in May 2014. The new ride opened on July 8, 2014, alongside other attractions in the new Diagon Alley section of the park. The building housing the attraction features a 60-foot (18 m) dragon statue perched over the entrance that utilizes special effects to simulate the breathing of fire. Upon opening, the wait times would reach up to seven hours long.

Ride experience
Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts is an indoor steel roller coaster with a track length of approximately 2,000 feet (610 m). The ride encompasses motion-based vehicles, detailed sets, physical effects, and 3D projection screens similar to those found on Transformers: The Ride – 3D and The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man. The ride's storyline is set during the early events portrayed in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2, when Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger are attempting to infiltrate Gringotts Bank in order to retrieve a Horcrux as part of their mission to defeat Lord Voldemort.

Queue
The queue begins through the lobby of Gringotts Wizarding Bank, where Bogrod, one of the bank's tellers, awaits guests who are visiting the bank to open an account. There is a large extended outdoor queue area that is used on busier days, that can stretch up to 2.5 miles in length. After Bogrod clears the guests to visit the vaults, they walk toward a security check to have their ID picture taken (this picture is in lieu of an on-ride photo, and can be purchased afterward). After getting clearance, guests pass tables laid out with issues of The Daily Prophet newspaper that display prominent headlines from the final Harry Potter film, including the death of Albus Dumbledore and the ascent of Severus Snape as Headmaster of Hogwarts. The queue continues down a corridor lined with offices used by the bank's goblin employees. In one of the offices, silhouettes of Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger (disguised by Polyjuice Potion as Bellatrix Lestrange), and Griphook can be seen and heard as they plot to infiltrate one of the bank's vaults to retrieve an unmentioned item. Continuing through the queue, guests enter Bill Weasley's office, where they are welcomed by the goblin Blordak and eventually joined by Bill. Blordak directs the guests toward the vaults; after exiting the office, guests wait at the door of an elevator simulation that will take them there, while a moving portrait of a goblin explains the safety precautions of the ride. Upon taking the elevator "down" to the vaults, guests pick up cart goggles and ascend a flight of stairs to the cart loading station.

Ride
After guests board their cart, the vehicle races along the tracks, just before security alarms go off as a security breach is detected and the bank goes on lockdown. Bellatrix Lestrange appears, after being notified of an impostor infiltration, and decides to torture the guests by cutting off the track and tilting it down. This sends the cart speeding toward the vaults as stalagmites can be seen to give an impression of being deep underground in the vaults. Bill Weasley casts Arresto Momentum to stop the cart just before Harry, Ron, Hermione, Griphook and Bogrod emerge from the Thief's Downfall, which has washed away the Polyjuice Potion's effect off Hermione. Their cart drops them from a high altitude as security trolls climb up, pushing Bill and Blordak off their cart.
A security troll pushes the guests' cart further, past the Thief's Downfall and stops in front of more security trolls. One of them is hit by a mace but hangs on to the guests' cart and sends them falling. Bill casts Arresto Momentum again to stop the cart from falling, followed by Aguamenti to stop the Ukrainian Ironbelly dragon from breathing fire on the guests (the audience gets sprayed with water at this point) and Wingardium Leviosa, sending guests' through the vaults, in order to help them escape. Meanwhile, Harry, Ron and Hermione are attempting to escape the vaults on the Ukrainian Ironbelly. Blordak urges guests to seek shelter inside one of the vaults.
After entering the vault, the walls come crashing down and Nagini appears in an attempt to attack guests. Bellatrix reappears, this time with Lord Voldemort, who confronts guests and questions them on their knowledge of Harry Potter's whereabouts. He blames Bellatrix for the vault infiltration, who again decides to torture guests sending them to a lava-filled chamber deep in the vaults. To further torture guests into revealing Harry Potter's whereabouts, Voldemort decides to administer "a little dose of pain to help you remember" and conjures a ball of fire. The Ukrainian Ironbelly crashes in from the opposite side, and Harry casts a counterspell, while the dragon spits fire towards Voldemort, who shields himself and Bellatrix and both later furiously retreat. Hermione casts a spell to hook the cart to the dragon in order to get guests safely out of the vaults and Ron casts Confringo to create an escape route. The cart is then launched through the escape route and Harry orders Hermione to cut the cart loose, away from peril. In the final scene, Harry asks Bill to take care of the guests as he acknowledges the retrieval of the Horcrux, which is the item that went unmentioned in the beginning, and Bill bids the guests farewell.

Cast
Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts features characters of the film series, which were reprised by their respective actors, except for Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Warwick Davis, who were involved in other film projects. Their likenesses as Harry Potter, Hermione Granger and Griphook, respectively, are present in the attraction as they appeared in the final Harry Potter film. Harry and Hermione are voice dubbed by other actors, while Griphook has no dialogue in the attraction.

Domhnall Gleeson as Bill Weasley
Helena Bonham Carter as Bellatrix Lestrange
Adam Sopp as Harry Potter (voice double)
Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley
Ralph Fiennes as Lord Voldemort
Jon Key as Bogrod. Key voices the goblin for the animatronic Bogrod in the bank's lobby, while his likeness as the character is present in the attraction in a silent role.
Jimmy Vee as Gringotts Goblin

Awards
In Amusement Today's annual Golden Ticket Awards, Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts has made it into the Top Five Dark Rides on five occasions since it opened in 2014.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey

Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey is a motion-based dark ride located in The Wizarding World of Harry Potter-themed areas of four Universal parks around the world – Universal Islands of Adventure in Florida, Universal Studios Hollywood in California, Universal Studios Japan, and Universal Studios Beijing. The first installation opened at Islands of Adventure in Universal Orlando on June 18, 2010. Subsequent installations opened in 2014 (Japan), 2016 (Hollywood), and 2021 (Beijing).
The ride utilizes robotic arm technology in a ride system designed and manufactured by RoboCoaster in partnership with Dynamic Attractions and KUKA. It takes guests in and around Hogwarts Castle depicting virtual scenes and environments from the Harry Potter series of books and films.

Summary

Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey uses KUKA robocoaster technology, which allows the seats to pivot while being held above the track by a robotic arm. However, the ride is not a roller coaster but a scenic dark ride. The experience includes a flight around Hogwarts castle, an encounter with the Whomping Willow and a horde of Dementors, and a Quidditch match. The ride drops, spins around, twists and turns, but does not turn upside down, though passengers sometimes lie flat on their backs. Over-the-shoulder bars are used to secure guests in their seats, and a single parabolic metal bar  is used as a hand grip. At the conclusion of the ride, guests exit into Filch's Emporium of Confiscated Goods gift shop.

Queue area

To enter the ride, guests walk through the gates of Hogwarts and begin their journey in the dungeons where they see items featured in the movies and books. Passengers enter through the castle doors, go to the lockers, queue outside in the green house and then enter the back castle doors. Objects recognizable from the series include the Mirror of Erised, the Hogwarts House Jewels, and talking portraits, which feature the founders of Hogwarts. As guests proceed throughout the hallways, they encounter replicas of the rooms of Hogwarts castle, including the Headmaster's office, the Defence Against the Dark Arts classroom and the Gryffindor common room. In the Headmaster's office, Professor Dumbledore extends a warm welcome to all Muggles, informing them that Professor Binns is hosting a lecture on the history of the school. In the Defence Against the Dark Arts classroom, Harry, Ron, and Hermione appear from under the Invisibility Cloak, urging guests to meet them in the Room of Requirement in order to sneak everyone down to a Quidditch match. Ron tries to cast a spell, which goes wrong, and one of several special effects, such as falling snow, is triggered. Before continuing on, visitors receive a safety reminder from the Sorting Hat and several paintings in the next two rooms.

Station

Next, riders board an enchanted Omnimover-style bench inside the Room of Requirement, which lifts off the ground and through the Floo Network for a journey with Harry. The ride combines real sets and animatronics with segments that use wrap-around projection screens.

Ride

The ride begins with a dousing of Floo Powder from Hermione Granger, who asks the guests to say, "Observatory" in order to transport them to their desired location, and the enchanted bench flies off through the Floo Network to the Astronomy Tower. The guests leave the room of requirement through its fireplace and enter the Observatory, where they look out through the open arches to the hills and lake outside Hogwarts' boundary. As the guests fly out of one of the Observatory's arches, the ride smoothly switches to a wrap-around projection screen and they follow Harry Potter and Ron Weasley around Hogwarts' buildings and towers to a Quidditch game. As Harry and Ron travel under a bridge, Hagrid hails the riders and asks them if they have seen a dragon. As Harry redirects the riders' attentions back to their journey, Hagrid's pet Hungarian Horntail dragon begins to chase the riders. The bench flies out of the projection screen and into a set of the uneven bridge that crosses the valley behind Hogwarts and, after falling out of a hole in the floor of the bridge, they encounter an animatronic dragon, which breathes pressurized water mist with red lighting pointed to it to make it resemble fire.
The riders descend into a set of the Forbidden Forest where they encounter a figure of Aragog, a large, sentient spider who spits water at them. As Hermione tries to help the riders away from Aragog and towards the castle, encountering many spiders on the way, they encounter an animatronic Whomping Willow which swipes at them, knocking them into the Quidditch pitch. The ride returns to a projection screen as the riders become caught up in Harry's and Ron's game of Quidditch. As Slytherin scores into Gryffindor's goal, Dementors arrive at the Quidditch pitch and Harry attempts to lead the riders away through the structure of the pitch and back to the school, but their bench falls into the long-abandoned Chamber of Secrets through a cave entrance in a cliff which Harry, Ron, Ginny, Fawkes, and Gilderoy Lockhart departed through from the Chamber in the second Harry Potter installment. The riders return to a real set as the Dementors appear from the pipelines and chase them. The skeleton of the long-deceased Basilisk lies on the floor of the Chamber, and expels Lord Voldemort's Dark Mark into the air as the benches are drawn into the mouth of Salazar Slytherin's statue.
Dozens of Dementors emerge from the darkness while one descends and attempts to suck out the riders' souls. This effect is achieved by projecting the riders' faces onto a cloud of fog in front of the Dementor, blasting cold air towards the riders, and using a heartbeat-like sound played through the sub-woofers built into the benches (Though the fog effect is not present in the Hollywood version and is instead replaced with dozens of Dementors surrounding the guests). After shaking the riders out of the trance, Harry causes the Dementors to flee with a protective Patronus Charm. After the final Dementor, and while Harry uses his Patronus, the riders enter the final video dome segment, where the cliffs outside the Chamber of Secrets cave in. They fly over the Black Lake, back into Hogwarts and through the Main Hall and Grand Staircase, where they are shouting wildly on by a series of onscreen characters from the movies who appear three-dimensional. Professor Dumbledore sends everyone back through the Floo Network to the Room of Requirement, where they exit their bench as he advises them to collect their items before Argus Filch confiscates them.

Restrictions

While everyone may walk through the queue, all riders must be at least 48 inches (120 cm) tall. The ride has no maximum weight limit, and riders can test whether the attraction accommodates their size using test seats at the queue entrance and again at the end of the queue, which are equipped with red, yellow, and green lights that indicate whether the rider can be accommodated. Persons requiring modified seating on other rides may have difficulty closing the ride's over-the-shoulder harness. If passengers are unable to secure the harness, they are not permitted to ride the attraction. In an attempt to alleviate this problem, Universal has modified the restraint system on some of the seats to accommodate larger guests. These modifications will not affect the size of the seat nor create a dangerous situation for smaller guests. Guests who receive a yellow light on the test seats may sit in modified seating. Modified seating is not available on the Hollywood version of the ride.
According to the Universal Orlando Resort Rider's Guide, both legs must protrude from under the restraint and form a lap. In practice, above-knee amputees will not be permitted to ride unless their residual natural limb reaches the edge of the seat (or at least includes a knee), even if the lock-bar appears to successfully engage the limb. Lower-limb prosthetics will not offset this requirement since they must be removed prior to boarding the ride. These particular restrictions are not clearly posted at the ride or on the website, which lists the height requirement only. The lower limb prosthetic removal requirement can be found at the "Accessibility Information" page under "Guests with Prosthetic Limbs." The residual limb length requirement is not listed there but will be enforced at the ride prior to boarding.  Wheelchair users who are able to transfer directly to the ride vehicle may do so at a separate area, which does not contain the introductory theming of the Floo Network.  Instead, wheelchair users pass through a series of unthemed elevators and corridors to arrive at the accessible loading area.  Only one accessible ride vehicle is available, and each party must wait for the previous group to return before they may enter the loading area.

Production

History
In January 2007, rumors arose about the possibility of a Harry Potter-themed island at Universal's Islands of Adventure theme park. This was followed by further rumors that part of the project was codenamed "Strong Arm" in reference to the KUKA robotic arm technology it would utilize. On May 31, 2007, Universal, in partnership with Warner Bros., officially announced  that The Wizarding World of Harry Potter would be coming to Islands of Adventure. Preparation of the site for The Wizarding World of Harry Potter began in late October 2007, and the construction of Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey began in February 2008. Construction ended in the first half of 2010. Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey began operating on June 1, 2010, and officially opened to the public on June 18, 2010. The ride was upgraded to 4K 120 FPS on June 4, 2018.
On May 5, 2012, the Los Angeles Times reported that Universal Studios Japan would also be receiving a The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, with Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey confirmed as one of the attractions. The Japanese ride opened on July 15, 2014. It had 3D effects added on May 21, 2015 and was upgraded to 4K 120 FPS on January 18, 2018. The 3D effects were removed on March 16, 2018.
On December 6, 2011, Universal Parks & Resorts announced that it would open The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Studios Hollywood in 2016, and that one of the attractions would be Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey. On April 7, 2016, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter: Hogsmeade opened at Universal Studios Hollywood with rides Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey and Flight of The Hippogriff debuting with the new section. Unlike its Florida counterpart, Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey featured 3D HD Technology, in which guests wore 3D "Quidditch" goggles. Although the 3D effects were removed only eight months later on December 4, 2016, the ride was updated with 4K 120 FPS on March 28, 2017.

Ride mechanics

Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey features a RoboCoaster G2 ride system provided by Dynamic Structures, KUKA and RoboCoaster. The ride features a KUKA KR500 R2830 robotic arm. The first generation RoboCoaster system featured KUKA robotic arm technology anchored to a stationary platform, while the second-generation G2 system mounted the arms on a busbar track. The system was first publicly disclosed at the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (IAAPA) Trade Show in 2003. At around the same time, rumors began circulating about the possibility of Islands of Adventure adding a Van Helsing-themed ride using this technology. These plans were later scrapped with Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey ultimately using the same technology and opening on the same plot of land proposed for the Van Helsing ride. The ride's seats are mounted on robotic arms which are in turn mounted on a track. This allows the arms to travel through the attraction while performing their movements in synchronization with the ride's show elements (animated props, projection surfaces, etc.). This concept first appeared in the 2004 International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (IAAPA) Trade Show. The disadvantage of this intricate machinery is that if the ride breaks down, some guests are stranded in uncomfortable positions, such as being tilted backwards in dark enclosed spaces.
For the three sections of the ride where wrap-around projection is used, each robotic arm continues its steady movement on the track but is met by its own individual parabolic projection screen and projector traveling at exactly the same pace. Each projection section uses a huge turntable with six of these enormous screens mounted facing outwards - one for each robotic arm as they pass by - and each screen is large enough that when in front of each ride bench its edges cannot be seen. The screens appear and disappear behind the edges of the physical sets. The robotic arms can then freely dive, turn and pivot each ride bench within the curved area, giving the illusion of extreme movement when synchronized with the projection, whilst the base of the arm on the track simply follows the slow circular path that each screen takes as it revolves. This is why each projection section of the ride is approximately the same length, as each ride arm must follow each identically-sized projection screen turntable for a set period of time.

Design
The attraction was designed by Universal Creative in association with Warner Bros. Recreation Group. Thierry Coup, who worked on The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man, Shrek 4-D and Revenge of the Mummy, was the Creative Director for the ride.

Cast
Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey features many of the main characters of the film series, which were reprised by their respective actors:

Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter
Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley
Emma Watson as Hermione Granger
Bonnie Wright as Ginny Weasley
Matthew Lewis as Neville Longbottom
Tom Felton as Draco Malfoy
Michael Gambon as Albus Dumbledore
Robbie Coltrane as Rubeus Hagrid
James Phelps as Fred Weasley
Oliver Phelps as George Weasley
Danielle Tabor as Angelina Johnson
Leslie Phillips as The Sorting Hat (voice)
Dawn French as The Fat Lady
Ken Bones as Salazar Slytherin
Lynne Pearson as Rowena Ravenclaw
TBA as Helga Hufflepuff
TBA as Godric Gryffindor
Ian Abercrombie as Professor Swoopstikes

Reception
Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey has been widely lauded for its innovation and theming. Arthur Levine of About.com stated that he felt he "had been taken to a truly magical place. For a few glorious moments, the Floo Network, flying benches, and willows that whomp seemed not just possible, but actual." He gave the ride a rating of 5 stars out of 5, and wrote that the ride was the best of its kind. Robert Niles of Theme Park Insider commended Universal Creative for its attention to detail on the ride. Niles wrote that the company had set its expectations almost impossibly high, and that the ride is "the most advanced and engaging attraction in theme park industry history". Ricky Brigante of Inside the Magic described the ride as a "jaw-dropping journey that no one should miss", but criticized the lack of continuity with the story.
In Amusement Today's annual Golden Ticket Awards, Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey debuted as the best new ride of 2010. It won the Best Dark Ride category for five consecutive years from 2011 to 2015, and it ranked second (behind The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror) every year from 2016 to 2019.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is a fantasy novel by British author J. K. Rowling. It is the fourth novel in the Harry Potter series. It follows Harry Potter, a wizard in his fourth year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and the mystery surrounding the entry of Harry's name into the Triwizard Tournament, in which he is forced to compete.
The book was published in the United Kingdom by Bloomsbury and in the United States by Scholastic. In both countries, the release date was 8 July 2000. This was the first time a book in the series was published in both countries at the same time. The novel won a Hugo Award, the only Harry Potter novel to do so, in 2001. The book was adapted into a film, released worldwide on 18 November 2005, and a video game by Electronic Arts.

Plot
During the summer, there is an attack at the Quidditch World Cup. The cloaked assailants resemble Death Eaters, the followers of Voldemort. When the school term begins at Hogwarts, Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody is introduced as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. Dumbledore announces that students from the foreign wizarding schools Beauxbatons and Durmstraang will be arriving at Hogwarts to participate in the Triwizard Tournament. Students who meet the age requirement are invited to enter themselves in the tournament by putting their names into an artefact called the Goblet of Fire. Although Harry does not nominate himself, he is mysteriously selected to compete against the older students Cedric Diggory, Fleur Delacour and Viktor Krum.
Harry is interviewed by the Daily Prophet reporter Rita Skeeter, who writes a scathing article portraying him as a disturbed attention-seeker. Using the Hogwarts Floo Network, Harry speaks with his godfather Sirius Black, who warns him about Durmstrang's headmaster Igor Karkaroff, who is a former Death Eater. Sirius believes that Harry's selection for the dangerous tournament is somehow connected to the attack at the World Cup. Hagrid alerts Harry that the First Task involves a dragon. After Moody reminds Harry that he is an expert flyer, Harry uses his broomstick to fly past the dragon and accomplish the task.
As Christmas approaches, Harry asks a girl named Cho Chang to the Yule Ball, but she is already going with Cedric. Harry and Ron end up going to the ball with the twin sisters Parvati and Padma Patil. Ron is sullen as he observes Hermione dancing with Krum. As the Second Task nears, Harry learns that he will need to rescue someone from the lake. The house-elf Dobby gives him Gillyweed, which allows him to breathe underwater long enough to rescue both Ron and Fleur's sister Gabrielle. He is awarded extra points for his bravery and is tied for first place.
In the Third Task, Harry and his competitors must navigate a maze of obstacles to reach the Triwizard Cup. Harry and Cedric reach the Cup at the same time and decide to grab it together. They are immediately transported to a graveyard, where Peter Pettigrew kills Cedric and subdues Harry. Using Harry's blood, he performs a rite that returns Voldemort to bodily form. As Voldemort and Harry duel, their wands magically connect. This distraction allows Harry the chance to escape back to Hogwarts with the Cup and Cedric's body.
Dumbledore, McGonagall, and Snape discover that Moody is actually the Death Eater Barty Crouch Jr, who has been constantly drinking Polyjuice Potion. When they administer him a truth potion, he reveals that he placed Harry's name in the Goblet, supported him through the Tasks so that he would reach the Triwizard Cup first, and ensured he was transported to the graveyard for the rite by turning the cup into a Portkey. Crouch Jr. is handed over to the Dementors, who render him soulless with the Dementor's Kiss. Recovering in the hospital wing, Harry narrates the events to Cedric's parents and offers them his tournament winnings; they will not accept the gold, so he gives it to Fred and George Weasley so they can open their joke shop. During a memorial service for Cedric, Dumbledore tells the students of Hogwarts that Voldemort has returned.

Development
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is the fourth book in the Harry Potter series. The first, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was published by Bloomsbury on 26 June 1997. The second, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, was published on 2 July 1998. The third, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, followed on 8 July 1999. Goblet of Fire is almost twice the size of the first three books (the paperback edition was 636 pages). J. K. Rowling stated that she "knew from the beginning it would be the biggest of the first four." She said there needed to be a "proper run-up" for the conclusion and rushing the "complex plot" could confuse readers. She also stated that "everything is on a bigger scale," which was symbolic, as Harry Potter's horizons widened both literally and metaphorically as he grew up. She also wanted to explore more of the magical world.
Until the official title's announcement on 27 June 2000, the book was called by its working title, "Harry Potter IV". Previously, in April, the publisher had listed it as Harry Potter and the Doomspell Tournament. However, J. K. Rowling expressed her indecision about the title in an Entertainment Weekly interview.
"I changed my mind twice on what [the title] was. The working title had got out — Harry Potter and the Doomspell Tournament. Then I changed Doomspell to Triwizard Tournament. Then I was teetering between Goblet of Fire and Triwizard Tournament. In the end, I preferred Goblet of Fire because it's got that kind of cup of destiny feel about it, which is the theme of the book."
Rowling mentioned that she originally wrote a Weasley relative named Mafalda, who, according to Rowling, "was the daughter of the 'second cousin who's a stockbroker' mentioned in Philosopher's Stone. This stockbroker had been very rude to Mr. and Mrs. Weasley in the past, but now he and his (Muggle) wife had inconveniently produced a witch, they came back to the Weasleys asking for their help in introducing her to wizarding society before she starts at Hogwarts". Mafalda was supposed to be a talented nosy Slytherin match for Hermione Granger and was to fill in the Rita Skeeter subplot, but she was eventually removed because "there were obvious limitations to what an eleven-year-old closeted at school could discover." Rowling considered Rita Skeeter to be "much more flexible". Rowling also admitted that the fourth book was the most difficult to write at the time because the Mafalda character also served as a giant plot hole, which she discovered halfway through writing.

Themes
Jeff Jensen, who interviewed Rowling for Entertainment Weekly in 2000, pointed out that bigotry is a big theme in the Harry Potter novels and Goblet of Fire in particular. He mentioned how Voldemort and his followers are prejudiced against Muggles and how, in Goblet of Fire, Hermione forms a group to liberate Hogwarts' house-elves who have "been indentured servants so long they lack desire for anything else". When asked why she explored this theme, Rowling replied,

Because bigotry is probably the thing I detest most. All forms of intolerance, the whole idea of that which is different from me is necessarily evil. I really like to explore the idea that difference is equal and good. But there's another idea that I like to explore, too. Oppressed groups are not, generally speaking, people who stand firmly together – no, sadly, they kind of subdivide among themselves and fight like hell. That's human nature, so that's what you see here. This world of wizards and witches, they're already ostracized, and then within themselves, they've formed a loathsome pecking order.
She also commented that she did not feel this was too "heavy" for children, as it was one of those things that a "huge number of children at that age start to think about".

Publication and reception

UK/US release
Goblet of Fire was the first book in the Harry Potter series to be released in the United States on the same date as the United Kingdom, on 8 July 2000, strategically on a Saturday so children did not have to worry about school conflicting with buying the book. It had a combined first-printing of over five million copies. It was given a record-breaking print run of 3.9 million. Three million copies of the book were sold over the first weekend in the US alone. FedEx dispatched more than 9,000 trucks and 100 planes to fulfil book deliveries. The pressure in editing caused a mistake which shows Harry's father emerging first from Voldemort's wand; however, as confirmed in Prisoner of Azkaban, James died first, so then Harry's mother ought to have come out first. This was corrected in later editions.

Launch publicity
To publicise the book, a special train named Hogwarts Express was organised by Bloomsbury, and run from King's Cross to Perth, carrying J.K. Rowling, a consignment of books for her to sign and sell, also representatives of Bloomsbury and the press. The book was launched on 8 July 2000, on platform 1 at King's Cross – which had been given "Platform 9+3⁄4" signs for the occasion – following which the train departed. En route it called at Didcot Railway Centre, Kidderminster, the Severn Valley Railway, Crewe (overnight stop), Manchester, Bradford, York, the National Railway Museum (overnight stop), Newcastle, Edinburgh, arriving at Perth on 11 July.
The locomotive was West Country class steam locomotive no. 34027 Taw Valley, which was specially repainted red for the tour; it later returned to its normal green livery (the repaints were requested and paid for by Bloomsbury). The coaches of the train included a sleeping car. A Diesel locomotive was coupled at the other end, for use when reversals were necessary, such as the first stage of the journey as far as Ferme Park, just south of Hornsey. The tour generated considerably more press interest than the launch of the film Thomas and the Magic Railroad, which premiered in London the same weekend.

Critical reception
In The New York Times Book Review, author Stephen King stated the Goblet of Fire was "every bit as good as Potters 1 through 3" and praised the humour and subplots, although he commented that "there's also a moderately tiresome amount of adolescent squabbling...it's a teenage thing". Kirkus Reviews called it "another grand tale of magic and mystery...and clicking along so smoothly that it seems shorter than it is". However, they commented that it did tend to lag, especially at the end where two "bad guys" stopped the action to give extended explanations, and that the issues to be resolved in sequels would leave "many readers, particularly American ones, uncomfortable". For The Horn Book Magazine, Martha V. Parravano gave a mixed review, saying "some will find [it] wide-ranging, compellingly written, and absorbing; others, long, rambling, and tortuously fraught with adverbs". A Publishers Weekly review praised the book's "red herrings, the artful clues and tricky surprises that disarm the most attentive audience" and saying it "might be her most thrilling yet". Writing for The New Yorker, Joan Acocella noted that "where the prior volumes moved like lightning, here the pace is slower, the energy more dispersed. At the same time, the tone becomes more grim".
Kristin Lemmerman of CNN said that it is not great literature: 'Her prose has more in common with your typical beach-blanket fare and the beginning contained too much recap to introduce characters to new readers, although Rowling quickly gets back on track, introducing readers to a host of well-drawn new characters.' Writing for Salon.com, Charles Taylor was generally positive about the change of mood and development of characters. Entertainment Weekly's reviewer Kristen Baldwin gave Goblet of Fire the grade of A−, praising the development of the characters as well as the many themes presented. However, she did worry that a shocking climax may be a "nightmare factory" for young readers.
In 2012 it was ranked number 98 on a list of the top 100 children's novels published by School Library Journal.

Awards and honours
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire won several awards, including the 2001 Hugo Award for Best Novel. It won the 2002 Indian Paintbrush Book Award, the third after Philosopher's Stone and Prisoner of Azkaban. The novel also won an Oppenheim Toy Portfolio Platinum Award for one of the best books, who claimed it was "more intense than the first three books". In addition, Entertainment Weekly listed Goblet of Fire in second place on their list of The New Classics: Books – The 100 best reads from 1983 to 2008. The Guardian ranked Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire #97 in its list of 100 Best Books of the 21st Century.

Adaptations

Film

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was adapted into a film, released worldwide on 18 November 2005, which was directed by Mike Newell and written by Steve Kloves. The film grossed $102.7 million for the opening weekend and eventually grossed $896 million worldwide. The film was also nominated for Best Art Direction at the 78th Academy Awards.

Video game

It was also made into a video game for Windows, PlayStation 2, Nintendo DS, GameCube, Xbox, Game Boy Advance, and PlayStation Portable by Electronic Arts. It was released just before the film.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is a 2005 fantasy film directed by Mike Newell from a screenplay by Steve Kloves. It is based on the 2000 novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire by J. K. Rowling. It is the sequel to Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004) and the fourth instalment in the Harry Potter film series. The film stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, alongside Rupert Grint and Emma Watson as Harry's best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, respectively. The film follows Harry's fourth year at Hogwarts, as he is chosen by the Goblet of Fire to compete in the Triwizard Tournament.
Principal photography began in early 2004, and the film premiered worldwide on 18 November 2005. Five days following release, it had earned over US$102 million at the North American box office, the third-highest first-weekend tally for a Harry Potter film behind Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2. Goblet of Fire grossed $895 million worldwide in its initial release, becoming the highest-grossing film of 2005 and is the sixth highest-grossing film in the series.
The film was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Art Direction and won the BAFTA Award for Best Production Design. Goblet of Fire was the second film in the series to be released in IMAX. The film received positive reviews. It was followed by Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix in 2007.

Plot
Harry Potter has a nightmare in which a Muggle caretaker named Frank Bryce is murdered at the Riddle House after overhearing a plot by Lord Voldemort, Peter Pettigrew, and another man whom Harry does not recognise. The following morning, Harry attends the Quidditch World Cup with the Weasleys, Hermione Granger, Cedric Diggory and his father Amos. That night, Death Eaters attack the campsite after the tournament and the unknown man from Harry's nightmare casts the Dark Mark.
At Hogwarts, Professor Dumbledore announces that the school will host the Triwizard Tournament along with the Durmstrang Institute and the Beauxbatons Academy. One student from each school will be chosen by the Goblet of Fire to participate; students under the age of seventeen are ineligible. The Goblet selects Fleur Delacour for Beauxbatons, Viktor Krum for Durmstrang, and Cedric for Hogwarts. It then chooses Harry as a fourth Champion, leading to much confusion. Many students believe Harry cheated, and Ron distances himself from him, hurt that Harry did not tell him when he allegedly entered. Harry is forced to compete due to a magical binding contract when a Champion's name was selected.
For the first task, the Champions must retrieve an egg by getting past a dragon. Professor Alastor Moody, the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, hints that Harry can use his wand to summon his broomstick. All four Champions collect their eggs. Ron reconciles with Harry after witnessing how perilous the first task was. On Christmas Eve, the school hosts the Yule Ball, but Harry and Ron could not attend with their preferred dates and instead go with Parvati and Padma Patil, respectively; Hermione goes with Viktor, provoking Ron's jealousy. Cedric advises Harry to use the Prefects' bathroom on the fifth floor of Hogwarts, take a bath, and submerge the egg in the water to find the second clue.
For the second task, the Champions must rescue somebody of value to them from the Black Lake: Harry has to save Ron, Cedric has to save his girlfriend, Cho Chang, Viktor has to rescue Hermione, and Fleur has to save her sister, Gabrielle. Neville Longbottom gives Harry gillyweed to help him breathe underwater. Cedric comes in first, and Harry is awarded second place after he saves not only Ron, but also Gabrielle, after Fleur had withdrawn from the task.
Harry later finds the lifeless body of Bartemius Crouch, a Ministry of Magic official, in the Forbidden Forest. In Dumbledore's office, he enters a Pensieve. He witnesses the questioning of Igor Karkaroff, current headmaster of Durmstrang, by Bartemius Crouch. Karkaroff is asked to name those who served Voldemort. He names Severus Snape, but Dumbledore vouches for Snape. Karkaroff then names Barty Crouch Jr. Harry recognises Barty Jr. from his nightmare.
For the third task, the Champions must navigate a maze to reach the Triwizard Cup. Harry and Cedric reach the Cup only to discover it is a Portkey that transports them to the graveyard from Harry's dream. Pettigrew kills Cedric on Voldemort's orders. He then uses Harry's blood to fully restore Voldemort. Lucius Malfoy and the Death Eaters arrive and are punished by Voldemort, while Pettigrew is rewarded. Voldemort tortures Harry and attempts to use the Killing Curse on him but as it clashes with Harry's spell, the ghosts of Voldemort's previous victims: Cedric, Frank, and Harry's parents Lily and James appear, distracting Voldemort long enough for Harry to use the Cup to return to Hogwarts with Cedric's body.
Harry informs Dumbledore of Cedric's murder and Voldemort's return. Harry is escorted by Moody to his office where he learns that Moody put his name into the Goblet and was guiding him to ensure the return of Voldemort. Just as Moody is about to kill Harry, Dumbledore, Snape, and Minerva McGonagall subdue Moody. Using Veritaserum, they learn that they have caught Barty Crouch Jr., who was impersonating Moody using Polyjuice Potion; the real Moody is imprisoned in a magical trunk.
At a memorial ceremony, Dumbledore announces that Voldemort murdered Cedric, although the Ministry denies these claims. Harry informs Dumbledore of his encounter with Voldemort, which Dumbledore describes as Priori Incantatem. The three schools bid farewell, with Harry, Ron, and Hermione agreeing that everything will change.

Cast

Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter: A 14-year-old British wizard famous for surviving his parents' murder at the hands of the evil dark wizard Lord Voldemort as an infant, who now enters his fourth year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley: Harry's best friend at Hogwarts and a younger member of the Weasley wizarding family.
Emma Watson as Hermione Granger: Harry's other best friend and the trio's brains.
Robbie Coltrane as Rubeus Hagrid: The gamekeeper and Care of Magical Creatures teacher at Hogwarts.
Ralph Fiennes as Lord Voldemort:A dark wizard intent on conquering the Wizarding World and the leader of the Death Eaters. Despite being aware of the success of the Harry Potter books and films, Fiennes hadn't originally read or seen them, so he wasn't interested at first when approached to play Voldemort, but after telling his sister Martha, she convinced him to take the role. Fiennes commented on the difficulty of playing someone who is "the essence of evil," and discussed giving a humanity to Voldemort in order for him to be "deeply, truly evil", citing the character's unhappy childhood as fuel for "anger, jealousy and hatred". He and director Mike Newell were interested in exploring the character's "unexpected mood swings". Newell cited Fiennes' ability to play "a realistic and frightening villain" instead of "a simple caricature" as a reason for his casting.
Michael Gambon as Albus Dumbledore:The headmaster of Hogwarts and one of the greatest wizards of all time. Gambon commented on the state of the character in the film: "Dumbledore is no longer in control and he's frightened." Newell compared Gambon's performance with Richard Harris' iteration in earlier films, showing the character as "fallible and not omnipotent" and "inadequate rather than super-adequate."
Brendan Gleeson as Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody:A famous ex-Auror appointed by Dumbledore as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts. Gleeson referred to Moody as "a gunslinger with a wand," whose "great wounds have damaged him greatly." Heyman found Gleeson brought "a great balance of ferociousness and humour" to what he called a "complex, challenging character."
Jason Isaacs as Lucius Malfoy: Draco's father and a former Hogwarts pupil of Slytherin House. He is also a member of the Death Eaters. Isaacs didn't initially expect to be back in the fourth Harry Potter film, but felt nonetheless grateful to be able to "get the wig out of mothballs" while preparing for the next film, where he was slated to have a bigger role.
Gary Oldman as Sirius Black: Harry's godfather, who had escaped from Azkaban after being wrongly imprisoned for twelve years and is now a fugitive.
Alan Rickman as Severus Snape: The Potions teacher at Hogwarts and head of Slytherin.
Maggie Smith as Minerva McGonagall: Deputy Headmistress of Hogwarts, the Transfiguration teacher at Hogwarts and head of Gryffindor.
Timothy Spall as Peter Pettigrew: The Death Eater who betrayed Harry's parents to Voldemort.
Bonnie Wright as Ginny Weasley
Several actors from the previous films reprise their roles in Goblet of Fire. James and Oliver Phelps play Fred and George Weasley, Ron's older twin brothers, while Mark Williams plays their father, Arthur Weasley. Tom Felton portrays Lucius Malfoy's son Draco, Harry's rival in Slytherin, while Jamie Waylett and Josh Herdman appear as Crabbe and Goyle, Draco's minions. Matthew Lewis, Devon Murray and Alfred Enoch play Neville Longbottom, Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas respectively, three Gryffindor students in Harry's year. David Bradley appears as Argus Filch, Hogwarts' caretaker, and Warwick Davis returns as Professor Filius Flitwick, now using the look used when Davis portrayed the conductor of the Hogwarts Choir in the previous film. Shirley Henderson reprises her role as Moaning Myrtle, a Hogwarts ghost, and Robert Hardy returns as Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic. Louis Doyle appears as Ernie MacMillan and Charlotte Skeoch as Hannah Abbott; Hufflepuff students.
Robert Pattinson appears as Cedric Diggory; a Hufflepuff student who is a Hogwarts champion, Pattinson replaces Joe Livermore, who made a brief appearance in the previous film during a Quidditch sequence. Jeff Rawle appears as Cedric's father Amos. David Tennant plays Barty Crouch Jr., a Death Eater, and Roger Lloyd-Pack portrays his father Bartemius Crouch, head of the Department of International Magical Cooperation. Katie Leung appears as Cho Chang, a Ravenclaw student and Harry's love interest. Clémence Poésy plays Beauxbatons champion Fleur Delacour, while Stanislav Ianevski portrays Durmstrang champion and Quidditch star Viktor Krum. Miranda Richardson plays The Daily Prophet reporter Rita Skeeter. Predrag Bjelac appears as Igor Karkaroff, Headmaster of Durmstrang and a former Death Eater, while Frances de la Tour plays Olympe Maxime, Headmistress of Beauxbatons. Shefali Chowdhury and Afshan Azad play Parvati and Padma Patil, Harry and Ron's dates to the Yule Ball, respectively. Eric Sykes appears as Frank Bryce, the caretaker at the Riddle family house. John Hurt originally confirmed in an interview with Empire that he would reprise his role as Garrick Ollivander as part of his four-film contract, but his scenes were cut.

Production

Development
Chris Columbus, who directed Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001) and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002), originally thought about returning to direct the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire while producing Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004), but ultimately declined because his children wanted to spend time with him like a family. In addition, they wanted to move back to America to see their friends after moving to England for the first two films.
Having read the first three books, Columbus had noticed the progressively darker tone of the story, leading author J. K. Rowling to give him, producer David Heyman and screenwriter Steve Kloves copies of a huge manuscript about her plans for Goblet of Fire before it was published, just so they could prepare themselves in terms of filming each subsequent film. M. Night Shyamalan was approached to direct the film but he was more interested in directing the film adaptation of Life of Pi. British film director Mike Newell was chosen to direct the film after Prisoner of Azkaban director Alfonso Cuarón announced that he would only be able to direct one Harry Potter film. In a statement explaining the transition of directors, series producer Heyman said:

When Alfonso made the decision to focus on completing Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, we were faced with the daunting task of finding a director to handle the complex challenges of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and to follow in the footsteps of Chris Columbus and Alfonso Cuarón. Mike's rich and diverse body of work show him to be the perfect choice. He has worked with children, made us laugh, and had us sitting on the edge of our seats. He is great with actors and imbues all his characters, all his films, with great humanity. I'm thrilled.
Work on the script began in April 2003. Heyman considered the pre-production on Goblet of Fire had been too lengthy for a single film. He stated, "We're going to shoot it as one and see how it ends up. If it's too long then we'll make it into two." Kloves, writer for the previous instalments, returned for Goblet of Fire. On adapting the 636-page book into a single feature-length film, Kloves commented, "we always thought it would be two movies, but we could never figure out a way to break it in two. So it will be a different experience from the book."
Columbus advised Heyman of splitting Goblet of Fire into two separate films due to its length, but Warner Bros. Pictures showed no interest in the idea. Newell found that "there was a way of making one film, which was as a thriller," while "[staying] true to the book and [keeping] the length down." In order to prepare for the film, Newell watched "paranoid thrillers" such as North by Northwest (1959), The Parallax View (1974), and Three Days of the Condor (1975). Henry Cavill auditioned for Cedric Diggory before Pattinson was cast; and Tolga Safer, who appeared as Karkaroff's Aide, auditioned for Viktor Krum before Ianevski was cast. Rosamund Pike was considered for Rita Skeeter, but she turned down the role because it was minor, a decision she would later regret.

Costume and set design

Costume designer Jany Temime returned as costume designer for Goblet of Fire. Temime made the Beauxbatons uniforms out of French blue silk, which stood out from the muted colours of the other schools. The fabric of the uniforms "clings to their form, in complete contrast to the restrictive uniforms the Hogwarts girls wear." The hat was designed by milliner Philip Treacy. The Durmstrang uniform was made of thick wool, with crimson robes and fur hats and capes. Temime drew inspiration from Habsburg and Russian folklore. For the Yule Ball, Temime created more than 300 costumes. Hermione's dress, which took three months to make, was designed to be a "fairy-tale dress", balancing "sweetness and allure" and keeping it "very prudish", in order for it to be "slightly sexy" while still appropriate for a teenager. Moody's coat was inspired by spaghetti Westerns, with a team spending a week "aging and distressing the coat to give it a lifetime's worth of wear."
As in the previous instalments, Stuart Craig and Stephenie McMillan served as production designer and set decorator, respectively. Due to the film's scope, there were many new sets and transformations of old sets created. McMillan was most excited about redesigning the Great Hall for the scenes involving the Yule Ball. As the novel described it as an ice palace, they decided to make "the magic ceiling out of ice", covering the walls in reflective silver and giving "an icy or silver makeover" to the decorations. McMillan and fellow set decorator Lee Sandales also created "magical ice sculptures, iced drinks and frosted food".
Each task of the Triwizard Tournament required massive sets. The rock quarry set for the first task, where Harry faces off with the Hungarian Horntail, was built in two sections at Leavesden Studios. Craig called it "one of the biggest sets we've ever built for any of the films." For the second task, involving the film's underwater scenes, the film crew designed and built a blue screen tank measuring 20 feet (6 m) deep by 60 feet (18 m) square, holding "about half a million gallons of water." It is the largest underwater filming tank in Europe. As for the final task, which took place in the maze, hedge walls ranging from 20 to 40 feet (6–12 m) tall were constructed and enhanced with computer-generated imagery.

Filming

Principal photography officially began on 4 May 2004, although shooting with the main cast did not start until 25 June 2004 at Leavesden Studios in England, and wrapped in March 2005.
The local area surrounding Leavesden Studios was used for the site of the Quidditch World Cup, filmed in Ivinghoe Beacon, and Ashridge Wood, while the cliff where the characters land with the Portkey was located in Seven Sisters Country Park in Seaford, East Sussex. Kirby wires were used to suspend the actors in the air during the landing scene.
Parts of Hogwarts were filmed at Oxford University. Harry's confrontation with Malfoy, who is later turned into a ferret by Moody, was shot in the courtyard quadrangle of the New College Cloister. Divinity School served as the room where McGonagall teaches Gryffindor students how to dance for the Yule Ball, having also been used as Hogwarts' infirmary in previous films. The Yule Ball scene was filmed in December 2004. Scenes by Hogwarts' Lake were filmed at the Virginia Water Lake in Surrey.
The forest where Hagrid shows Harry the dragons was set in Black Park, next to Pinewood Studios, while the first task of the Triwizard Tournament was filmed at the Steall Falls in Glen Nevis and Black Rock Gorge. For the second task, set in the Black Lake, the filmmakers tried a technique called dry for wet, where actors are suspended and wind is blown on them to simulate being underwater, but found "the hair didn't undulate convincingly." The sequence was then filmed in a large underwater tank, and the actors took scuba diving lessons in preparation, under the supervision of stunt coordinator Greg Powell. Radcliffe underwent six months of training for the scene and spent more than 40 hours underwater over the three weeks it took to film.

Music

John Williams, who had scored the first three Harry Potter films, could not return for the fourth installment due to a busy schedule. Williams had already committed to composing Revenge of the Sith, Munich, War of the Worlds, and Memoirs of a Geisha all in 2005. Patrick Doyle, who had worked with Newell on Into the West and Donnie Brasco, replaced him as composer. The initial request was that Doyle would be working with Williams' material, but eventually only "Hedwig's Theme", the leitmotif of the series, remained from the previous scores. Pulp lead singer Jarvis Cocker, who was even reported to score the film, was one of the musicians invited by Doyle, with whom he had worked in the Great Expectations soundtrack, to write a song for a wizard rock band. Once Doyle chose Cocker's composition, he and other British musicians such as Jonny Greenwood and Philip Selway of Radiohead were picked to play the fictional band Weird Sisters, both performing songs for the soundtrack and having cameo roles in the film.

Differences from the book

With the Goblet of Fire novel almost twice the length of Prisoner of Azkaban, the writers and producers reduced certain scenes and concepts to make the transition from page to screen. Director Mike Newell described the problem as one of "compressing a huge book into the compass of a movie". This was achieved by "putting aside" all the components of the novel which did not directly relate to Harry and his journey.
Goblet of Fire is the first film adaptation not to begin at Privet Drive; after the opening sequence, Harry awakens at the Burrow on the morning of the Quidditch World Cup final. The gameplay at the Quidditch World Cup final was removed for timing reasons, leaving an abrupt temporal jump that some reviewers considered awkward or "rushed". In the book, Harry and many of the Weasleys support Ireland, while in the film Harry and Ron support Bulgaria. Nonetheless, both of them admire the Bulgarian seeker Viktor Krum.
The scene where Dumbledore asks Harry if he put his name in the goblet is noticeably different. In the book, he asks calmly whereas in the film, he appears much angrier and panic stricken, to the point that he even manhandles Harry and demands an answer from him. Similarly, Harry's first trial with a dragon is expanded into an extended flight around Hogwarts.
Other scenes are shortened and amalgamated to include only the most essential plot details. For example, the three Death Eater trials Harry witnesses in the Pensieve are merged into one sequence. The characters of Bill Weasley, Charlie Weasley, Cassius Warrington, Ludo Bagman, Winky, Narcissa Malfoy, and Bertha Jorkins are all absent, as well as Dobby, who was supposed to help Harry obtain gillyweed for the second task. In place of Dobby, this scene was changed to involve Neville Longbottom. All of Sirius Black's lines are condensed into a single fireside conversation.
The house elves/slavery subplot, which involves Hermione's attempt to form a group (S.P.E.W.) to promote their welfare is omitted. The scene where Harry hears Karkaroff arguing with Snape at the Yule Ball is cut from the film, but can be seen on the DVD extras. Harry is never seen either receiving or giving away the 1,000 galleons in prize winnings. The scene in which Crouch Jr. is taken back to Azkaban is different from the book, in which he was "kissed" by a Dementor summoned by Cornelius Fudge. There is also no conversation in which Fudge refuses to believe that Voldemort has returned, leaving this to be explained in the next film. There is no train scene at the end where Rita Skeeter is revealed to be an illegal, unregistered Animagus or that Hermione uses this information to blackmail her into silence for a year.

Distribution

Marketing
An exclusive first-look was shown on ABC during the television premiere of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets on 7 May 2005. The first trailer was made available online on 8 May 2005. The international trailer debuted online on 23 August 2005.
The video game adaptation, designed by EA UK, was released 8 November 2005. Mattel released a line of action figures and artefacts based on the film. Among these was the first edition of Harry Potter Scene It? containing over 1,000 questions involving the four films.

Theatrical release

Goblet of Fire was the first instalment in the series to be rated 12A by the BBFC for its dark themes, fantasy violence, threat and frightening images. In the US, it received a PG-13 rating from the MPAA for "sequences of fantasy violence and frightening images". In Australia, the ACB classified it as M (Mature) for "moderate dark themes, moderate fantasy violence".
Goblet of Fire was the second film in the series to be given a simultaneous release in conventional theatres and IMAX. Dubbed Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire: The IMAX Experience, it was digitally remastered for IMAX from its 35mm form to take part in a "commercial growth strategy" set up between IMAX and Warner Bros.
The film was released in most countries within a two-week period starting on 18 November 2005 in the United Kingdom and United States, with a 1 December 2005 release in Australia. In the United States, the film opened in a maximum of 3,858 cinemas that included several IMAX venues.
The world premiere took place in London, England on 6 November 2005. One of the features of the premiere was an animatronic, fire-breathing Hungarian Horntail. The 40-foot-long dragon, used during the scene where Hagrid leads Harry into the forest at night before the first task, was designed and built by special effects supervisor John Richardson and creature effects/makeup supervisor Nick Dudman.

Home media
The film was released on DVD in North America on 7 March 2006. It was available in one- and two-disc editions, as well as part of an 8-disc box set that includes all four films at that time. The bonus disc features three interactive games, as well as seven behind the scenes featurettes. It was also released in UMD format for PSP.
A VHS release occurred at least in New Zealand, Finland and Japan, with the fullscreen aspect ratio.
On its first day of release in North America, over 5 million copies were sold, recording a franchise high for first-day sales. Within its first week, it sold over a total of 9 million units of combined sales of both the widescreen and full-screen versions of the DVD. Overall, The Goblet of Fire made a revenue of $207.9 million from home video sales in the US.
The UK edition was released on DVD on 20 March 2006 and became the fastest selling UK DVD ever, selling six copies per second on its day of release. According to the Official Charts Company, the DVD sold 1.4 million copies in the first week. It is also available in a two-disc pressing with special features similar to the North American edition.
The film holds the Guinness World Record for being the fastest selling DVD of all time. The achievement was added to the 2007 book edition of The Guinness World Records, which includes a picture of the award being presented to Daniel Radcliffe on the Order of the Phoenix set at Leavesden Film Studios in April 2006.
In the United States, the first five films were released on HD DVD and Blu-ray disc on 11 December 2007. Goblet of Fire has since become available in numerous box sets containing the other released films, including the Harry Potter: Complete 8-Film Collection and Harry Potter Wizard's Collection. An Ultimate Edition of Goblet of Fire was released on 19 October 2010, featuring behind-the-scenes footage, trailers, deleted scenes and a feature-length special Creating the World of Harry Potter Part 4: Sound & Music. Despite not being included in the Ultimate Edition, an extended version has been shown during certain television airings with roughly ten minutes of additional footage.

Reception

Box office
After an opening day of $40 million at the North American box office and staying at number 1 for three weeks, Goblet of Fire made a successful 20-week run in cinemas, closing on 6 April 2006. The film set numerous records, including the highest non-May opening weekend in the US, and earned £14.9m in its opening weekend in the UK, a record which has since been beaten by the 2008 James Bond film Quantum of Solace, which took in £15.4m. The Goblet of Fire drew $102.7 million for its opening weekend at the North American box office, setting a new opening high for the franchise and also achieved the highest weekend debut in November, with the latter being surpassed by The Twilight Saga: New Moon in 2009. The film also achieved the biggest opening weekend for a Warner Bros. Pictures film, holding this record for three years until the release of The Dark Knight in July 2008. It sold about as many tickets as Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone did in its opening weekend. The film's franchise record was later overtaken in 2010 by Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1, which opened to $125 million; Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 followed with $169.1 million in its opening weekend. The Goblet of Fire's debut marked the fourth $100 million weekend in history and as of July 2011, it stands as the 17th largest opening weekend ever. In Mainland China, the film generated 93 million yuan.
The Goblet of Fire earned almost US$897 million worldwide, making it the highest-grossing international and worldwide release of 2005.
In IMAX theatres only, the film grossed a total of US$20,033,758 worldwide for a cumulative per-screen average of $188,998 thus setting a new record and a new milestone for a digitally remastered 2-D IMAX release.
In January 2006, The Goblet of Fire surpassed the box office takings of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002) to become the eighth-highest-grossing film worldwide, and the second-highest-grossing film in the  Harry Potter series, behind The Philosopher's Stone. As of July 2011, it has been the sixth-highest-grossing Harry Potter film behind The Philosopher's Stone, The Order of the Phoenix and The Half-Blood Prince, The Deathly Hallows – Part 1, and The Deathly Hallows – Part 2.
The film ranks third in the North American box office behind Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith and The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe for 2005, with US$290 million, although both films rank lower than Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire in worldwide terms.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes the film holds an approval rating of 88% based on 259 reviews, with an average rating of 7.4/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "The main characters are maturing, and the filmmakers are likewise improving on their craft; vibrant special effects and assured performances add up to what is the most complex yet of the Harry Potter films." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 81 out of 100, based on 38 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A" on an A+ to F scale.
The New York Daily News praised the film for both its humour and its dark tone. The young actors were praised for demonstrating a "greater range of subtle emotions", particularly Daniel Radcliffe whom Variety described as delivering a "dimensional and nuanced performance".
Robert Pattinson received critical praise for his scenes as Cedric Diggory, where he "invested him with a charm and everyman likeability, making his demise at the hands of the newly made-flesh Voldemort a devastatingly poignant turning point in the series." New cast members were also praised: Brendan Gleeson's portrayal of "Mad-Eye" Moody was described as "colourful"; Miranda Richardson's scenes as Rita Skeeter were described as "wonderful"; and Ralph Fiennes's portrayal of Lord Voldemort was described as "sublime villainy".
The maturity of Harry, Ron, and Hermione, among others, impressed most critics. While the major characters were portrayed as children in the previous films, "they have subtly transitioned into teenagers (in Goblet of Fire)" according to one USA Today reviewer. Desson Thomson of The Washington Post called the film "Probably the most engaging film of the Potter series thus far". Joe Morgenstern of The Wall Street Journal stated "The studio, like plucky Harry, passes with flying colors. The new one, directed by Mike Newell from another astute script by Mr. Kloves, is even richer and fuller, as well as dramatically darker. It's downright scary how good this movie is".
Negative criticism included the film's pace which The Arizona Republic described as being "far too episodic", while CNN.com described the film as "clunky and disjointed". Another criticism was that the many supporting characters did not get enough screen time. The film was listed at #36 on Entertainment Weekly's list of the 50 Best High School Movies praising Rowling for ingeniously blending "two literary traditions, fantasy and coming-through-school fiction".

Accolades
The film was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Art Direction at the 78th Academy Awards. At the 2006 Teen Choice Awards, the film won the award for Choice Movie Drama. The film won the BAFTA Award for Best Production Design, making it the first Harry Potter film to win at the BAFTAs. It also won 2006 BAFTA Kids' Vote at British Academy Children's Awards.
At the 2006 Kids' Choice Awards, the film won the Blimp Award for Favorite Movie, becoming the only Harry Potter film to do so.

Lawsuit
In the run up to the film's release, Warner Bros. approached a Canadian folk group called the Wyrd Sisters to obtain permission to use the name The Weird Sisters for its Harry Potter band. When a deal could not be made, the Canadian band filed a US$40 million lawsuit against Warner Bros., the film's distributor, as well as the members of the in-movie band (members of Radiohead and Pulp, among others) for the misuse of their group's name. (In a deleted scene, they are simply introduced as "the band that needs no introduction".) The Canadian band also brought an injunction to stop the release of the film in its country, as it contained a performance by the identically named fictional rock band.
An Ontario judge dismissed this motion, and to avoid further controversy, Warner Bros. rendered the band unnamed in the film and many derived products. However, the Winnipeg-based group continued to pursue the lawsuit; lead singer Kim Baryluk stated in her claim that "consumers will assume that the smaller and less famous Canadian band is trying to take advantage of the Harry Potter fame by copying the Harry Potter band's name when in fact the reverse is true." The injunction was dismissed, and the band was ordered to pay costs. As of March 2010, the lawsuit has been settled, and the details sealed.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is a fantasy novel by British author J. K. Rowling. It is the sixth and penultimate novel in the Harry Potter series, and takes place during Harry Potter's sixth year at the wizard school Hogwarts. The novel reveals events from the early life of Lord Voldemort, and chronicles Harry's preparations for the final battle against him.
The book was published in the United Kingdom by Bloomsbury and in the United States by Scholastic on 16 July 2005, as well as in several other countries. It sold almost seven million copies in the first 24 hours after its release, a record eventually broken by its sequel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. There were many controversies before and after it was published, including the right-to-read copies delivered before the release date in Canada. Reception to the novel was generally positive, and it won several awards and honours, including the 2006 British Book of the Year award.
Reviewers noted that the book had a darker tone than its predecessors, though it did contain some humour. Some considered the main themes love, death, trust, and redemption. The considerable character development of Harry and many other teenage characters also drew attention.

Plot
Narcissa Malfoy convinces Hogwarts professor Severus Snape to make an Unbreakable Vow to protect her son, Draco, while Draco carries out a mission for Lord Voldemort at the school. Meanwhile, Harry Potter is escorted by Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore to spend the summer with the Weasley family. On the way, they stop to persuade former Hogwarts professor Horace Slughorn to return to the school to teach Potions. While shopping for school supplies, Harry, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger see Draco making enquiries at a shop associated with the Dark Arts. Harry later overhears Draco claiming that he has become a Death Eater.
At Hogwarts, Harry excels at Potions after discovering an old textbook filled with annotations written by the "Half-Blood Prince"; Harry wins a vial of the luck potion Felix Felicis in a class competition. He learns about Voldemort's past by viewing memories in a Pensieve with Dumbledore. Voldemort grew up in a Muggle orphanage, where he used his powers to harm other children. In his later years at Hogwarts, Voldemort questioned Slughorn about a Dark magical object called a Horcrux, which grants immortality. Dumbledore asks Harry to retrieve a memory from Slughorn, as the memory he showed Harry had been altered.
Meanwhile, Gryffindor student Katie Bell is nearly killed. Harry suspects Draco is responsible but lacks proof. He continues trying to expose Draco while fulfilling his duties as captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team. He also realises that he has feelings for Ron's sister, Ginny. Ron feels excluded from his friend group because he is the only one not invited to an exclusive club run by Slughorn. Hermione invites Ron to the club's Christmas party, but he argues with her after learning about her past relationship with Viktor Krum. Afterwards, Ron begins to perform poorly in Quidditch matches.
Harry tries to repair Ron and Hermione's relationship and restore Ron's confidence, but he fails. Ron begins dating Lavender Brown to spite Hermione, prompting Hermione to lash out at him. At Slughorn's party, Harry overhears Draco refusing Snape's offer to help him with his mission. Harry informs Hermione, Arthur Weasley, and Remus Lupin, but they believe Snape was spying for Dumbledore. Ron and Hermione reconcile after Ron almost dies by poisoning. After multiple failed attempts to obtain the memory, Harry uses Felix Felicis to successfully persuade Slughorn to relinquish it.
The memory reveals that Slughorn told Voldemort how to create a Horcrux: by committing murder, a wizard can split their soul into parts which can be placed in enchanted objects. Dumbledore believes that Voldemort has split his soul into seven parts, each of which is contained in a Horcrux. Dumbledore deduces that two Horcruxes have already been destroyed, but four are still hidden. Meanwhile, Harry begins dating Ginny and duels Draco, severely injuring him with spells taken from the Potions textbook. Harry learns that Snape informed Voldemort of the prophecy concerning him, which led to the murder of Harry's parents. When confronted, Dumbledore defends Snape and claims that Snape regretted his actions.
Dumbledore and Harry encounter several obstacles while retrieving a Horcrux from a remote cave. Back at Hogwarts, a weakened Dumbledore is ambushed by Death Eaters, who have infiltrated the castle with Draco's help. Dumbledore immobilises Harry beneath the invisibility cloak, before Draco disarms Dumbledore. Harry then watches as Snape arrives and kills Dumbledore. The Death Eaters escape and Harry gives chase and subdues several of them, but is ultimately defeated by Snape. Before escaping with Draco, Snape also reveals that he is the Half-Blood Prince to Harry.
Harry learns that the Horcrux he retrieved with Dumbledore is a fake. At Dumbledore's funeral, Harry ends his relationship with Ginny to protect her and decides to find and destroy the Horcruxes with Ron and Hermione.

Development

Series

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is the sixth novel in the Harry Potter series. The first novel, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was originally published by Bloomsbury in 1997. Philosopher's Stone was followed by Chamber of Secrets (1998), Prisoner of Azkaban (1999), Goblet of Fire (2000), and Order of the Phoenix (2003). Half-Blood Prince was followed by the final novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. Half-Blood Prince sold 9 million copies in the first 24 hours of its worldwide release.

Background

J. K. Rowling stated that she had Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince "planned for years," but she spent two months revisiting her plan before she began writing the story's first draft. This was a lesson learned after she did not check the plan for Goblet of Fire and had to rewrite an entire third of the book. She started writing the book before her second child David was born, but she took a break to care for him. The first chapter, "The Other Minister", which features meetings between the Muggle Prime Minister, Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge and his successor Rufus Scrimgeour was a concept Rowling tried to start in Philosopher's Stone, Prisoner of Azkaban and Order of the Phoenix, but she found "it finally works" in Half-Blood Prince. She stated that she was "seriously upset" writing the end of the book, although Goblet of Fire was the hardest to write. When asked if she liked the book, she responded, "I like it better than I liked Goblet, Phoenix or Chamber when I finished them. Book six does what I wanted it to do and even if nobody else likes it (and some won't), I know it will remain one of my favourites of the series. Ultimately you have to please yourself before you please anyone else!"
Rowling revealed the title of Half-Blood Prince on her website on 24 June 2004. This was the title she had once considered for the second book, Chamber of Secrets, though she decided the information disclosed belonged later on in the story. On 21 December 2004, she announced she had finished writing it, along with the release date of 16 July. Bloomsbury unveiled the cover on 8 March 2005.

Controversies
The record-breaking publication of Half-Blood Prince was accompanied by controversy. In May 2005, bookmakers in the UK suspended bets on which main character would die in the book amid fears of insider knowledge. A number of high-value bets were made on the death of Albus Dumbledore, many coming from the town of Bungay where it was believed the books were being printed at the time. Betting was later reopened. Additionally, in response to Greenpeace's campaign on using forest-friendly paper for big-name authors, Bloomsbury published the book on 30% recycled paper.

Right-to-read controversy
In early July 2005, a Real Canadian Superstore in Coquitlam, British Columbia, Canada, accidentally sold fourteen copies of The Half-Blood Prince before the authorised release date. The Canadian publisher, Raincoast Books, obtained an injunction from the Supreme Court of British Columbia that prohibited the purchasers from reading the books before the official release date or discussing the contents. Purchasers were offered Harry Potter T-shirts and autographed copies of the book if they returned their copies before 16 July.
On 15 July, less than twelve hours before the book went on sale in the Eastern time zone, Raincoast warned The Globe and Mail newspaper that publishing a review from a Canada-based writer at midnight, as the paper had promised, would be seen as a violation of the trade secret injunction. The injunction sparked a number of news articles alleging that the injunction had restricted fundamental rights. Canadian law professor Michael Geist posted commentary on his blog. Richard Stallman called for a boycott and requested the publisher issue an apology. The Globe and Mail published a review from two UK-based writers in its 16 July edition and posted the Canadian writer's review on its website at 9:00 that morning. Commentary was also provided on the Raincoast website.

Style and themes
Some reviewers noted that Half-Blood Prince contained a darker tone than the previous Potter novels. The Christian Science Monitor's reviewer Yvonne Zipp argued the first half contained a lighter tone to soften the unhappy ending. The Boston Globe reviewer Liz Rosenberg wrote, "lightness [is] slimmer than ever in this darkening series...[there is] a new charge of gloom and darkness. I felt depressed by the time I was two-thirds of the way through." She also compared the setting to Charles Dickens's depictions of London as it was "brooding, broken, gold-lit, as living a character as any other." Christopher Paolini called the darker tone "disquieting" because it was so different from the earlier books. Liesl Schillinger, a contributor to The New York Times book review, also noted that Half-Blood Prince was "far darker" but "leavened with humor, romance and snappy dialogue." She suggested a connection to the 11 September attacks, as the later, darker novels were written after that event. David Kipen, a critic of the San Francisco Chronicle, considered the "darkness as a sign of our paranoid times" and singled out curfews and searches that were part of the tightened security at Hogwarts as resemblances to our world.
Julia Keller, a critic for the Chicago Tribune, highlighted the humour found in the novel and claimed it to be the success of the Harry Potter saga. She acknowledged that "the books are dark and scary in places" but "no darkness in Half-Blood Prince...is so immense that it cannot be rescued by a snicker or a smirk." She considered that Rowling was suggesting difficult times can be worked through with imagination, hope, and humour and compared this concept to works such as Madeleine L'Engle's A Wrinkle in Time and Kenneth Grahame's The Wind in the Willows.
Rosenberg wrote that the two main themes of Half-Blood Prince were love and death and praised Rowling's "affirmation of their central position in human lives." She considered love to be represented in several forms: the love of parent to child, teacher to student, and the romances that developed between the main characters. Zipp noted trust and redemption to be themes promising to continue in the final book, which she thought "would add a greater layer of nuance and complexity to some characters who could sorely use it." Deepti Hajela also pointed out Harry's character development, that he was "no longer a boy wizard; he's a young man, determined to seek out and face a young man's challenges." Paolini had similar views, claiming, "the children have changed...they act like real teenagers."

Publication and reception

Critical reception
According to BBC News Online, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince received mixed reviews from literary critics upon its release. Liesl Schillinger of The New York Times praised the novel's various themes and suspenseful ending. However, she considered Rowling's gift "not so much for language as for characterisation and plotting." Kirkus Reviews said it "will leave readers pleased, amused, excited, scared, infuriated, delighted, sad, surprised, thoughtful and likely wondering where Voldemort has got to, since he appears only in flashbacks." They considered Rowling's "wry wit" to turn into "outright merriment" but called the climax "tragic, but not uncomfortably shocking." Yvonne Zipp of The Christian Science Monitor praised the way Rowling evolved Harry into a teenager and how the plot threads found as far back as Chamber of Secrets came into play. On the other hand, she noted it "gets a little exposition-heavy in spots," and older readers may have seen the ending coming.
The Boston Globe correspondent Liz Rosenberg wrote, "The book bears the mark of genius on every page" and praised the imagery and darker tone of the book, considering that the series could be crossing over from fantasy to horror. The Associated Press writer Deepti Hajela praised the newfound emotional tones and ageing Harry to the point at which "younger fans may find [the series] has grown up too much." Emily Green, a staff writer for the Los Angeles Times, was generally positive about the book but was concerned whether young children could handle the material. Cultural critic Julia Keller of the Chicago Tribune called it the "most eloquent and substantial addition to the series thus far" and considered the key to the success of the Potter novels to be humour.

Awards and honours
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince won several awards, including the 2006 British Book of the Year Award and the 2006 Royal Mail Award for Scottish Children's Books for ages 8–12 in its native United Kingdom. In the United States, the American Library Association listed it among its 2006 Best Books for Young Adults. It won both the 2005 reader-voted Quill Awards for Best Book of the Year and Best Children's Book. It also won the Oppenheim Toy Portfolio Platinum Seal for notable book.

Sales

Before publication, 1.4 million pre-orders were placed for Half-Blood Prince on Amazon.com, breaking the record held by the previous novel, Order of the Phoenix, with 1.3 million. The initial print run for Half-Blood Prince was a record-breaking 10.8 million. Within the first 24 hours after release, the book sold 9 million copies worldwide: 2 million in the UK and about 6.9 million in the US, which prompted Scholastic to rush an additional 2.7 million copies into print. Within the first nine weeks of publication, 11 million copies of the US edition were reported to have been sold. The US audiobook, read by Jim Dale, set sales records with 165,000 sold over two days, besting the adaptation of Order of the Phoenix by twenty percent.

Translations

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was published simultaneously in the UK, US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa. Along with the rest of the books in the Harry Potter series, it was eventually translated into 67 languages. However, because of high security surrounding the manuscript, translators did not get to start on translating Half-Blood Prince until its English release date, and the earliest were not expected to be released until the fall of 2005. In Germany, a group of "hobby translators" translated the book via the internet less than two days after release, long before German translator Klaus Fritz could translate and publish the book.

Editions

Since its wide hardcover release on 16 July 2005, Half-Blood Prince was released as a paperback on 23 June 2006 in the UK. Two days later on 25 July, the paperback edition was released in Canada and the US, where it had an initial print run of 2 million copies. To celebrate the release of the American paperback edition, Scholastic held a six-week sweepstakes event in which participants in an online poll were entered to win prizes. Simultaneous to the original hardcover release was the UK adult edition that featured a new cover and was also released as a paperback on 23 June. Also released on 16 July was the Scholastic "Deluxe Edition," which featured reproductions of Mary GrandPré's artwork and had a print run of about 100,000 copies. Bloomsbury later released a paperback "Special Edition" on 6 July 2009 and a "Signature Edition" paperback on 1 November 2010.

Adaptations

Film

The film adaptation of the sixth book was originally scheduled to be released on 21 November 2008 but was changed to 15 July 2009. Directed by David Yates, the screenplay was adapted by Steve Kloves and produced by David Heyman and David Barron. The film grossed over $934 million worldwide, which made it the second-highest-grossing film of 2009 worldwide and the fifteenth-highest of all time. Additionally, Half-Blood Prince gained an Academy Award nomination for Best Cinematography.

Video games

A video game adaptation of the book was developed by EA Bright Light Studio and published by Electronic Arts in 2009. The game was available on Windows, Nintendo DS, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, Wii, Xbox 360, and macOS platforms.
The book was also adapted in the 2011 video game Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality

Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality (HPMOR) is a work of Harry Potter fan fiction by Eliezer Yudkowsky published on FanFiction.Net as a serial from February 28, 2010, to March 14, 2015, totaling 122 chapters and over 660,000 words. It adapts the story of Harry Potter to explain complex concepts in cognitive science, philosophy, and the scientific method. Yudkowsky's reimagining supposes that Harry's aunt Petunia Evans married an Oxford professor and homeschooled Harry in science and rational thinking, allowing Harry to enter the magical world with ideals from the Age of Enlightenment and an experimental spirit. The fan fiction spans one year, covering Harry's first year at Hogwarts. HPMOR has inspired other works of fan fiction, art, and poetry, is connected to the contemporary rationalist community, and is popular among rationalists and effective altruists.

Plot
In this fan fiction's alternate Harry Potter series universe, Lily Potter magically made her sister, Petunia Evans, more beautiful, allowing her to marry Oxford professor Michael Verres. When their nephew Harry James Potter is orphaned, they adopt him as Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres and homeschool him in science and rationality. When Harry turns 11, Petunia and Professor McGonagall reveal the wizarding world and Harry's defeat of Lord Voldemort to him and Michael. Harry becomes irritated over the wizarding society's inconsistencies and backwardness. When traveling to Hogwarts, Harry becomes distanced from Ron Weasley and befriends Draco Malfoy and Hermione Granger.
At Hogwarts, the Sorting Hat sends Harry and Hermione to Ravenclaw and Draco to Slytherin. As school begins, Harry comes into conflict with the faculty, befriends Professor Quirrell over their shared dispositions, and analyzes magic through the scientific method with Draco and Hermione. His efforts get Draco to question his discriminatory ideology towards Muggle-borns and allow Harry to invent partial Transfiguration, which transmutes parts of wholes by applying timeless physics. Quirrell starts a school program involving student armies, embroiling Harry, Hermione, and Draco in further conflict.
After winter break, Quirrell procures a Dementor to teach students the Patronus charm. Though Hermione and Harry initially fail, Harry recognizes Dementors as shadows of death and invents the True Patronus charm, destroying the Dementor. After Harry teaches him to cast a regular Patronus, Draco discovers Harry can speak Parseltongue and alleges to him that Dumbledore murdered his mother. Quirrell reveals himself as a snake Animagus to Harry and convinces him to help spirit a supposedly manipulated Bellatrix Black from Azkaban, leaving her in hiding and causing Headmaster Dumbledore to believe that Voldemort had returned.
Later, after several bullying incidents, Hermione establishes the student organization S.P.H.E.W. to protest misogyny in heroism and fight bullies, causing widespread chaos. Suddenly, she gets accused of attempting to murder Draco; Harry pays Lucius Malfoy, Draco's father, to prevent her from being sentenced to Azkaban, and Lucius withdraws Draco from Hogwarts. Harry and Dumbledore's Order of the Phoenix theorize that Quirrell is David Monroe, a long-missing opponent of Voldemort. Not long after, a mountain troll enters Hogwarts and kills Hermione before Harry manages to slay it. Grieving, Harry vows to resurrect Hermione and negotiates with Lucius, absolving the Malfoys of guilt in her murder in exchange for Lucius returning his money, acknowledging her innocence, and returning Draco to Hogwarts.
Near the end of the year, Harry discovers Quirrell drinking unicorn blood, supposedly to delay death from a health condition. A month later, Quirrell tricks and captures Harry, revealing himself as Voldemort's spirit possessing Quirrell and how he framed and murdered Hermione. He coerces Harry into helping him steal the Philosopher's Stone, which can make temporary transmutations permanent, from a magical mirror in Hogwarts, by promising to resurrect Hermione in exchange. After they succeed, Dumbledore appears and tries to seal Voldemort outside time; Voldemort endangers Harry, forcing Dumbledore to seal himself instead.
Voldemort's spirit abandons Quirrell and uses the Stone to incarnate himself; he and Harry resurrect Hermione, whose body Harry had stolen and preserved, using the Stone and Harry's True Patronus. Voldemort murders Quirrell as a human sacrifice for a magical ritual to give Hermione a Horcrux and the magic of a mountain troll and unicorn, rendering her near-immortal. Knowing that prophecy foretells that Harry endangers the world, Voldemort summons Lucius and his other Death Eaters, forces Harry to swear an Unbreakable Vow never to risk destroying the world, and orders his murder. Harry quickly improvises an attack using partial Transfiguration that kills every Death Eater and incapacitates Voldemort, whom he memory-wipes and transfigures into his ring's jewel. He claims the Stone and stages a scene to make people believe that "David Monroe" died defeating Voldemort and resurrected Hermione.
After the battle, McGonagall gives Dumbledore's letters to Harry, who learns from them that prophecies had convinced Dumbledore to gamble the future of the world's peoples on him and bequeath his positions and assets to him. Harry helps a grieving Draco find his mother, Narcissa, and plans with the resurrected Hermione to overhaul wizarding society by destroying Azkaban using the True Patronus and employing the Philosopher's Stone to grant everyone immortality.

History
Yudkowsky wrote Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality as a medium to promote the rationalist community and skills he advocates on his community blog, LessWrong. According to him, "I'd been reading a lot of Harry Potter fan fiction at the time the plot of HPMOR spontaneously burped itself into existence inside my mind, so it came out as a Harry Potter story, [...] If I had to rationalize it afterward, I'd say the Potterverse is a very rich environment for a curious thinker, and there's a large number of potential readers who would enter at least moderately familiar with the Harry Potter universe."
Yudkowsky has used HPMOR to solicit donations for the Center for Applied Rationality, which teaches courses based on his work.
Yudkowsky refused a suggestion from David Whelan to sell HPMOR as an original story after rewriting it to remove the Harry Potter setting's elements from it to avoid copyright infringement, as E. L. James did with Fifty Shades, which was originally a Twilight fan fiction, saying, "That's not possible in this case. HPMOR is fundamentally linked to, and can only be understood against the background of, the original Harry Potter novels. Numerous scenes are meant to be understood in the light of other scenes in the original HP."
After HPMOR concluded in 2015, Yudkowsky's readers celebrated by holding worldwide wrap parties.

Reception

Critical response

Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality is highly popular on FanFiction.Net, though it has also caused significant polarization among readers. In 2011, Daniel D. Snyder of The Atlantic recorded how HPMOR "caused uproar in the fan fiction community, drawing both condemnations and praise" on online message boards "for its blasphemous—or brilliant—treatment of the canon." In 2015, David Whelan of Vice described HPMOR as "the most popular Harry Potter book you've never heard of" and claimed, "Most people agree that it's brilliantly written, challenging, and—curiously—mind altering."
HPMOR has received positive mainstream reception. Hugo Award-winning science fiction author David Brin positively reviewed HPMOR for The Atlantic in 2010, saying, "It's a terrific series, subtle and dramatic and stimulating… I wish all Potter fans would go here, and try on a bigger, bolder and more challenging tale." In 2014, American politician Ben Wikler lauded HPMOR on The Guardian as "the #1 fan fiction series of all time," saying it was "told with enormous gusto, and with emotional insight into that kind of mind," and comparing Harry to his friend Aaron Swartz's skeptical attitude. Writing for The Washington Post, legal scholar William Baude praised HPMOR as "the best Harry Potter book ever written, though it is not written by J.K. Rowling" in 2014 and "one of my favorite books written this millennium" in 2015. In 2015, Vakasha Sachdev of Hindustan Times described HPMOR as "a thinking person's story about magic and heroism" and discussed how "the conflict between good and evil is represented as a battle between knowledge and ignorance," eliciting his praise. In 2017, Carol Pinchefsky of Syfy lauded HPMOR as "something brilliant" and "a platform on which the writer bounces off complex ideas in a way that's accessible and downright fun." In a 2019 interview for The Sydney Morning Herald, young adult writer Lili Wilkinson said that she adores HPMOR; according to her, "It not only explains basically all scientific theory, from economics to astrophysics, but it also includes the greatest scene where Malfoy learns about DNA and has to confront his pureblood bigotry." Rhys McKay hailed HPMOR in a 2019 article for Who as "one of the best fanfics ever written" and "a familiar yet all-new take on the Wizarding world."
In his 2012 book Singularity Rising, James D. Miller, an economics professor at Smith College and one of Yudkowsky's acquaintances, praised HPMOR as an "excellent marketing strategy" for Yudkowsky's "pseudoscientific-sounding" views due to its carefully crafted lessons about rationality. While he criticized Yudkowsky as "profoundly arrogant" for believing that making people more rational would make them more agreeable to his ideas, he nonetheless agreed that such an effort would gain him more followers.

Accolades
The fan audiobook for HPMOR was a finalist in the Parsec Awards in 2012 and 2015.

Translations

Russian

On July 17, 2018, Mikhail Samin, a former head of the Russian Pastafarian Church who had previously published The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster in Russian, launched a non-commercial crowdfunding campaign hosted on Planeta.ru alongside about 200 helpers to print a three-volume edition of the Russian translation of Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality. Lin Lobaryov, the former lead editor of Mir Fantastiki, compiled the books. Samin's campaign reached its 1.086 million ₽ (approximately US$17 000) goal within 30 hours; it ended on September 30 with 11.4 million ₽ collected (approximately US$175 000), having involved 7,278 people, and became the biggest Russian crowdfunding project for a day before a fundraiser hosted on CrowdRepublic for the Russian translation for Gloomhaven surpassed it.
Though Samin originally planned to print 1000 copies of HPMOR, his campaign's unprecedented success led him to print twenty-one times more copies than that. Yudkowsky supported Samin's efforts and wrote an exclusive introduction for HPMOR's Russian printing, though the campaign's popularity surprised him. Samin's HPMOR publication project is the largest-scale effort on record, surpassing many previous low-circulation fan printings, and he sent some Russian copies of HPMOR to libraries and others to schools as prizes for Olympiad winners. J.K. Rowling and her agents refused Russian publishing house Eksmo's request for commercial publication of HPMOR.

Other

HPMOR has Chinese, Czech, French, German, Hebrew, Indonesian, Italian, Japanese, Latvian, Norwegian, Spanish, Swedish, and Ukrainian translations.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is a fantasy novel by British author J. K. Rowling. It is the fifth and longest novel in the Harry Potter series. It follows Harry Potter's struggles through his fifth year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, including the surreptitious return of the antagonist Lord Voldemort, O.W.L. exams, and an obstructive Ministry of Magic. The novel was published on 21 June 2003 by Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom, Scholastic in the United States, and Raincoast in Canada. It sold five million copies in the first 24 hours of publication.
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix won several awards, including the American Library Association Best Book Award for Young Adults in 2003. The book was also made into a 2007 film, and a video game by Electronic Arts.

Plot
During the summer, Harry is frustrated by the lack of communication from his friends and by Dumbledore's refusal to let him help in the struggle against Lord Voldemort. One evening, Dementors attack him and his cousin Dudley, but Harry fends them off using the Patronus Charm. Later, members of the Order of the Phoenix arrive at the Dursley residence and take Harry to Number 12, Grimmauld Place. Number 12 is Sirius Black's family home and the headquarters of the Order, which is a secret organisation founded by Dumbledore to fight Voldemort and his Death Eaters. Harry wants to join the Order, but is too young.
Under the leadership of Cornelius Fudge, the Ministry of Magic is waging a smear campaign against Harry and Dumbledore, claiming they are lying about the return of Voldemort. Harry faces legal charges for the Patronus Charm he performed, but is exonerated and returns to Hogwarts. Dolores Umbridge, a senior Ministry employee, is the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. She implements a textbook-only curriculum and forbids the students from practising defensive spells. Harry, Ron, and Hermione form a secret student group called Dumbledore's Army, which meets in the Room of Requirement to practice defensive magic under Harry's instruction.
One night, Harry dreams that Arthur Weasley is attacked by Voldemort's snake, Nagini. The attack actually occurred, and Dumbledore realises that Harry's mind is connected to Voldemort. He orders Professor Snape to teach Harry Occlumency to keep Voldemort out of his mind. When Umbridge discovers Dumbledore's Army, Dumbledore saves Harry from expulsion by claiming he formed the group. Dumbledore then goes into hiding to avoid arrest. Umbridge is appointed headmistress and begins enacting strict rules and regulations.
During exams, Harry has a vision of Voldemort torturing Sirius at the Department of Mysteries. He attempts to contact Sirius at Grimmauld Place, but Umbridge catches and interrogates him, admitting she sent the Dementors. Hermione intervenes and convinces Umbridge to go with her and Harry into the Forbidden Forest. When Umbridge provokes the centaurs who live there, they take her captive. Harry and his friends fly to the Ministry to rescue Sirius, but he is not there. Instead, they find shelves containing glass spheres, one of which bears Harry's name. Harry picks it up and is immediately surrounded by Death Eaters. Lucius Malfoy reveals that Harry was lured to the Ministry by a false vision from Voldemort, who wishes to hear the prophecy contained in the sphere. He asks Harry for the sphere, but Harry refuses to give it to him.
The students fight the Death Eaters with help from several Order of the Phoenix members. Neville accidentally knocks the sphere down some steps, destroying it. Bellatrix Lestrange attacks Sirius, and he disappears through a mysterious stone archway to his death. Voldemort appears and tries to kill Harry, but Dumbledore arrives and thwarts him. Fudge and other Ministry of Magic employees arrive on the scene and witness Voldemort just before he flees. Back at Hogwarts, Dumbledore tells Harry the prophecy was made by Professor Trelawney, who predicted the birth of a child with the power to vanquish Voldemort. This prophecy caused Voldemort to murder Harry's parents, and it is why he wishes to kill Harry as well. Harry feels overwhelmed by the prophecy and the loss of his godfather, but the wizarding community now believes him and respects him. Motivated by his friends, Harry returns to the Dursleys for the summer.

Publication and release
Harry Potter fans waited three years between the releases of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Before the release of the fifth book, 200 million copies of the first four books had already been sold and translated into 55 languages in 200 countries. As the series was already a global phenomenon, the book forged new pre-order records, with thousands of people queuing outside book stores on 20 June 2003 to secure copies at midnight. Despite the security, thousands of copies were stolen from an Earlestown, Merseyside warehouse on 15 June 2003.

Critical response
In 2004, the book was cited as an American Library Association Best Book for Young Adults and as an American Library Association Notable Book. It also received the Oppenheim Toy Portfolio 2004 Gold Medal, along with several other awards. Rowling was praised for her imagination by USA Today writer Deirdre Donahue.
The New York Times writer John Leonard praised the novel, saying "The Order of the Phoenix starts slow, gathers speed and then skateboards, with somersaults, to its furious conclusion....As Harry gets older, Rowling gets better." However, he also criticised "the one-note Draco Malfoy" and the predictable Lord Voldemort.
The book was a nominee and finalist for the 2004 Prometheus Award.

Predecessors and sequels
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is the fifth book in the Harry Potter series. The first book in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was first published by Bloomsbury in 1997 with an initial print-run of 500 copies in hardback, 300 of which were distributed to libraries. By the end of 1997, the UK edition won a National Book Award and a gold medal in the 9-to-11-year-olds category of the Nestlé Smarties Book Prize. The second novel, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, was published in the UK on 2 July 1998. The third novel, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, was published a year later in the UK on 8 July 1999 and in the US on 8 September 1999. The fourth novel, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, was published 8 July 2000, simultaneously by Bloomsbury and Scholastic. The fifth novel, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, is the longest book in the series, yet it is the second-shortest film at 2 hours 18 minutes.
After the publishing of Order of the Phoenix, the sixth book of the series, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, was published on 2 April 2005 and sold 9 million copies in the first 24 hours of its worldwide release. The seventh and final novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, was published 21 July 2007. The book sold 11 million copies within 24 hours of its release: 2.7 million copies in the UK and 8.3 million in the US. Full reading list of Harry Potter series https://nextbookinorder.com/harry-potter/

Adaptations

Film

In 2007, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix was released in a film version directed by David Yates and written by Michael Goldenberg. The film was produced by David Heyman's company, Heyday Films, alongside David Barron. The budget was reportedly between £75 and 100 million (US$150–200 million), and it became the unadjusted eleventh-highest-grossing film of all time and a critical and commercial success. The film opened to a worldwide 5-day opening of $333 million, the third best of all time, and grossed $940 million total, second to Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End for the greatest total of 2007.

Video games

A video game adaptation of the book and film versions of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix was made for Windows, PS2, PS3, Xbox 360, PSP, Nintendo DS, Wii, Game Boy Advance, and Mac OS X. It was released on 25 June 2007 in the U.S., 28 June 2007 in Australia, and 29 June 2007 in the UK and Europe for PlayStation 3, PSP, PlayStation 2, Windows, and 3 July 2007 for most other platforms. The games were published by Electronic Arts.
The book is also depicted in the 2011 video game Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is a 2007 fantasy film directed by David Yates from a screenplay by Michael Goldenberg. It is based on the 2003 novel Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by J. K. Rowling. It is the sequel to Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005) and the fifth instalment in the Harry Potter film series. The film stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, alongside Rupert Grint and Emma Watson as Harry's best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger respectively. Its story follows Harry's fifth year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as the Ministry of Magic is in denial of Lord Voldemort's return.
Filming took place in England and Scotland for exterior locations and Leavesden Film Studios in Watford for interior locations from February to November 2006, with a one-month break in June. Post-production on the film continued for several months afterwards to add in visual effects. The film's budget was reportedly between £75 and 100 million ($150–200 million).
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix was released in 2D cinemas and IMAX formats in the United States on 11 July 2007 and in the United Kingdom on 12 July, by Warner Bros. Pictures. The film received generally positive reviews from critics and was nominated for many awards, including the BAFTA Award for Best Production Design and Special Visual Effects. With a worldwide five-day opening of $333 million and a total gross of $942 million, it was the second-highest-grossing film of 2007, and was noted as a case of Hollywood accounting, as Warner Bros. claimed that it lost $167 million despite the total gross. A sequel, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, was released in 2009.

Plot
While staying at the Dursleys', Harry Potter and Dudley Dursley are attacked by Dementors. Harry repels them using a Patronus spell. The Ministry of Magic detects Harry using magic and expels him from Hogwarts, though he is later exonerated.
The Order of the Phoenix, a secret organisation founded by Albus Dumbledore, informs Harry that the Ministry of Magic is attempting to stonewall rumors about Lord Voldemort's return. At the Order's headquarters, Harry's godfather, Sirius Black, mentions that Voldemort seeks an object he previously lacked; Harry believes it to be a weapon.
Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge has appointed Dolores Umbridge as Hogwarts' new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. Umbridge's refusal to teach defensive spells causes her and Harry to clash. Harry is forced to write lines for "lying" about Voldemort; a magic quill etches the words into his hand as he writes. Ron and Hermione are outraged, but Harry refuses to tell Dumbledore, who has distanced himself from Harry. As Umbridge gains more control over the school, Ron and Hermione help Harry form "Dumbledore's Army", a secret group to teach students defensive spells. Umbridge recruits Slytherins for an Inquisitorial Squad to spy on the other students. Meanwhile, Harry and Cho Chang develop romantic feelings for each other.
One night, Harry envisions Arthur Weasley being attacked at the Ministry, seeing it from the attacker's perspective. Concerned that Voldemort will exploit this connection to Harry, Dumbledore has Severus Snape teach Harry Occlumency to defend his mind from Voldemort's influence. During a lesson, Harry sees Snape's memories of how his father, James, bullied and tormented Snape in school. The connection between Harry and Voldemort further isolates Harry from his friends. Meanwhile, Bellatrix Lestrange, Sirius's deranged Death Eater cousin, escapes Azkaban prison along with nine other Death Eaters. At Hogwarts, Umbridge and her Inquisitorial Squad expose Dumbledore's Army. Dumbledore, falsely accused of forming it, escapes as Fudge orders his arrest. Harry believes Cho betrayed Dumbledore's Army to Umbridge, ending their budding relationship. Umbridge becomes the new Headmistress.
Harry experiences a vision that Voldemort is torturing Sirius. Harry, Ron, and Hermione rush to Umbridge's office to alert the Order via the Floo Network. Umbridge catches them and, as she is about to severely punish Harry, Hermione claims Dumbledore has hidden a "secret weapon" in the Forbidden Forest. She and Harry lead Umbridge to where Hagrid's giant half-brother, Grawp is kept. The centaurs confront them and kidnap Umbridge after she insults and attacks them. Harry, Hermione, Ron, Luna, Neville and Ginny fly to the Ministry of Magic on Thestrals to save Sirius.
The six enter the Department of Mysteries and recover the object that Voldemort is after, a bottled prophecy labelled with Harry's name. Death Eaters ambush them, including Lucius Malfoy and Bellatrix Lestrange. Lucius reveals that Harry's vision of Sirius being tortured was a ruse to lure him there. Harry refuses to give Lucius the prophecy, and a fight ensues. The Death Eaters overpower the students and force Harry to surrender the prophecy. When Harry hands it to Lucius, Sirius and Remus Lupin arrive with Order members, including Nymphadora Tonks, Kingsley Shacklebolt and Mad-Eye Moody. Lucius accidentally drops the prophecy during the chaos, destroying it. Just as Sirius overpowers Lucius, Bellatrix kills Sirius.
Voldemort appears, but moments before he can kill Harry, Dumbledore arrives. A violent duel erupts, destroying much of the Atrium, while Bellatrix escapes. The two wizards are evenly matched, so Voldemort possesses Harry's body, wanting Dumbledore to sacrifice him. The love Harry feels for his friends and family quickly drives out Voldemort. Ministry officials arrive before Voldemort disapparates; Fudge admits that Voldemort has returned and resigns in disgrace. Umbridge is dismissed and Dumbledore returns as Hogwarts headmaster. Dumbledore explains he had distanced himself from Harry to prevent Voldemort exploiting their connection. He also reveals the prophecy. As he grieves Sirius's death, Harry tries to accept the prophecy: "Neither can live while the other survives."

Cast

Mark Williams appears as Molly Weasley's husband, Arthur, a member of the Order of the Phoenix. Warwick Davis plays Filius Flitwick, the school's charms teacher, maestro and Head of Ravenclaw House while David Bradley plays Hogwarts caretaker, Argus Filch. Tom Felton, Jamie Waylett and Joshua Herdman play Slytherin students Draco Malfoy, Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle. James and Oliver Phelps, Bonnie Wright and Chris Rankin play Ron's siblings, Fred, George, Ginny and Percy while Devon Murray, Alfred Enoch and Matthew Lewis play Gryffindor students, Seamus Finnigan, Dean Thomas and Neville Longbottom. Katie Leung plays Harry's love interest, Cho Chang. Robert Hardy plays the Minister for Magic, Cornelius Fudge. Harry Melling plays Harry's cousin, Dudley Dursley.
Evanna Lynch joins the cast as Ravenclaw student Luna Lovegood. Timothy Bateson voices house-elf, Kreacher and Tony Maudsley plays Hagrid's half-brother, Grawp. Kathryn Hunter plays the Dursley's neighbour, Mrs. Figg. George Harris and Natalia Tena play members of the Order of the Phoenix, Kingsley Shacklebolt and Nymphadora Tonks.

Production

Development
British television director David Yates was chosen to direct the film after Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire director Mike Newell, as well as Jean-Pierre Jeunet, Guillermo del Toro, Matthew Vaughn and Mira Nair, turned down offers. Yates believed he was approached because the studio saw him fit to handle an "edgy and emotional" film with a "political backstory", which some of his previous television projects including State of Play, Sex Traffic and The Girl in the Café demonstrated. Producer David Heyman supported Yates's comments about the film's political theme, stating that "[Order of the Phoenix] is a political film, not with a capital P, but it's about teen rebellion and the abuse of power. David has made films in the UK about politics without being heavy handed." On the film's political and social aspects, Emma Watson stated that "somehow it talks about life after 7 July, the way people behave when they're scared, the way truth is often denied and all the things our society has to face. Facing the fact that the authority is corrupted means having a non-conformist approach to reality and power."
Steve Kloves, the screenwriter of the first four Potter films, had other commitments. Michael Goldenberg, who was considered to pen the first film in the series, filled in and wrote the script. Kloves subsequently returned to write all remaining instalments of the series.
Mark Day was the film editor, Sławomir Idziak was the cinematographer, and Jany Temime was the costume designer. Choreographer Paul Harris, who had previously worked with David Yates several times, created a physical language for wand combat to choreograph the wand fighting scenes.

Casting
Casting began as early as May 2005, when Radcliffe announced he would reprise his role as Harry. Across the media frenzy that took place during the release of Goblet of Fire, most of the main returning actors announced their return to the series, including Grint, Watson, Lewis, Wright, Leung, and Fiennes.
The announcements of the casting of the rest of the new characters to the series was spanned across 2006. Evanna Lynch won the role of Luna Lovegood over 15,000 other girls who attended the open casting call, waiting in a line of hopefuls that stretched a mile long. Saoirse Ronan auditioned for the role but was considered too young.
Persistent rumours linked Elizabeth Hurley to the role of Bellatrix Lestrange, although Warner Bros. Pictures asserted there was "no truth whatsoever" to reports that she had been cast. As early as August 2005, rumours began linking Helen McCrory to the role. On 2 February 2006, it was announced that McCrory had indeed been cast as Bellatrix. However, in April 2006 she revealed that she was three months pregnant and withdrew from the film because she would not have been able to perform the intense battle sequences in the Ministry of Magic in September and October 2006. The announcement that Bonham Carter had been recast in the role was made on 25 May 2006. McCrory was subsequently cast as Narcissa Malfoy from Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince onwards.
The inclusion or cutting of some characters sparked speculation from fans as to the importance of the characters in the final book of the series, which was released just ten days after the film. In April 2006, representatives of Jim McManus said he would be playing Aberforth Dumbledore, Albus's brother and the barman of the Hog's Head, in which Harry and his friends found Dumbledore's Army. A week later WB announced that the role was "very minor", allaying some of the speculation to the significance of the role, which, before the final book, was not even a speaking part. MTV reported in October 2006 that Dobby the house elf, who appeared in the second film, Chamber of Secrets, and in the fifth book, would be cut, opening up "plot questions" as to how the role of the elf would be filled. MTV also reported about a month before the release of the final book that Kreacher, the Black family's house-elf, was cut from the film in one draft of the script. Rowling prodded the filmmakers to include him, saying, "You know, I wouldn't [cut him] if I were you. Or you can, but if you get to make a seventh film, you'll be tied in knots", he was added back into the script.
Other minor roles were cut with subsequent drafts of the script. At the US premiere of Goblet of Fire, series producer David Heyman said that former Hogwarts professor Gilderoy Lockhart, played by Kenneth Branagh in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, was in the first draft of the script for Phoenix. Neither Branagh nor the character of Lockhart appears in the final version. Tiana Benjamin was scheduled to return for the film in the role of Angelina Johnson, the captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team, but she had to withdraw due to a commitment to playing Chelsea Fox in EastEnders. The character, as well as the entire Quidditch subplot, was ultimately cut from the film. Benjamin did record sound clips for the Order of the Phoenix video game.
The family of footballer Theo Walcott made a cameo appearance in the film. They were signed on by director David Yates, who is the partner of Yvonne Walcott, Theo's aunt. Theo himself was due to appear alongside his family, though his commitments to Arsenal Football Club forced him to pull out.

Set design
Stuart Craig returned as set designer, having designed the first four films' sets. There were a number of notable new sets in this film. The atrium in the Ministry of Magic is over 200 feet in length, making it the largest and most expensive set built for the Potter film series to date. Craig's design was inspired by early London Underground stations, where, he said, architects "tried to imitate classical architecture but they used ceramic tile", as well as a Burger King on Tottenham Court Road in London, where "there's a fantastic Victorian façade which just embodies the age". The set of Number Twelve, Grimmauld Place contains the Black family tapestry spread across three walls; when the producers told Rowling they wanted to visualise the details of each name and birth year, she faxed them a complete copy of the entire tree. The set of the Hall of Prophecies was entirely digitally built. During a fight scene which occurs there, prophecies crash to the ground and break; had it been an actual physical set, the reset time would have been weeks.
The set used for Igor Karkaroff's trial scene in Goblet of Fire was doubled in size for Harry's trial in this film, while still protecting its symmetry. New professor Dolores Umbridge, though she teaches in a classroom that has appeared in films two through four, inhabits an office vastly different from those of her predecessors. The set was redressed with "fluffy, pink filigree" and a number of plates upon which moving kittens were animated in post-production. A 24-hour photo shoot was held to photograph and film the kittens for use on these plates. The quill which Umbridge gives Harry to write lines is designed by the set designers.

Filming

Rehearsals for Order of the Phoenix began on 27 January 2006, and principal photography began on 7 February 2006 and wrapped in November 2006. Filming was put on a two-month hiatus starting in May 2006 so Radcliffe could sit his A/S Levels and Watson could sit her GCSE exams. The film's budget was reportedly between £75 and 100 million (US$150–200 million). The largest budget of the other films in the series has been the £75 million it cost to make Goblet of Fire. Though the producers explored options to film outside of the UK, Leavesden Film Studios in Watford was again the location on which many of the interior scenes, including the Great Hall, Privet Drive, and Number Twelve, Grimmauld Place were shot.
One of the locations in England is the River Thames, used for the flight of the Order of the Phoenix to Number Twelve, Grimmauld Place and the flight of Dumbledore's Army to the Ministry of Magic. This sequence also includes such landmarks as the London Eye, Canary Wharf, Big Ben, Buckingham Palace, and HMS Belfast. Filming at platform nine and three-quarters took place at King's Cross station, as it has in the past. A red telephone booth near Scotland Yard was used as Harry and Arthur Weasley enter the Ministry, while the crew closed the Westminster tube station on 22 October 2006 to allow for filming of Arthur Weasley accompanying Harry to his trial at the Ministry of Magic. Other scenes were filmed in and around Oxford, specifically at nearby Blenheim Palace in Woodstock.
In Glenfinnan, the Hogwarts Express crosses a viaduct, as it has in the past films. Aerial scenes were shot in Glen Coe, Clachaig Gully, and Glen Etive, which, at the time of filming, was one of the few places in Scotland without snow, making it ideal for a backdrop.
Director David Yates stated in an interview that he had originally shot a three-hour cut of Order of the Phoenix. However, some material had to be cut out in the final edit, as the movie was 45 minutes too long. Therefore, several locations that were used for various scenes do not appear in the final cut of the film. In Virginia Water, scenes were shot where Professor McGonagall recovers from Stunning Spells, and Burnham Beeches was used for filming the scene where Hagrid introduces his fifth-year Care of magical creatures class to Thestrals. Harry skips stones in front of the Glenfinnan Monument in Glenfinnan in another cut scene.

Visual effects
The film required over 1,400 visual effects shots, and the London-based company Double Negative created more than 950 of them. Working for six months on previsualisation starting in September 2005, Double Negative was largely responsible for sequences in the Room of Requirement, the Forbidden Forest, the Hall of Prophecies, and the Death Chamber.
A new character in the film, Grawp, Hagrid's giant half-brother, came to life by a new technology called Soul Capturing, developed by Image Metrics. Instead of building the character from scratch, the movements and facial expressions of actor Tony Maudsley were used to model Grawp's actions.

Music and soundtrack

Nicholas Hooper was the composer for the soundtrack of the film, following John Williams, who scored the first three films, and Patrick Doyle, who did the fourth. In the new score, Hooper incorporated variations on "Hedwig's Theme", the series' theme originally written by Williams for the first film and heard in all subsequent instalments. In March and April 2007, Hooper and the Chamber Orchestra of London recorded nearly two hours of music at Abbey Road Studios in London. The score, like the film and book, is darker than previous instalments in the series. To emphasise this, the two new main themes reflect the sinister new character Dolores Umbridge, and Lord Voldemort's invasion of Harry's mind. A Japanese Taiko drum was used for a deeper sound in the percussion. The soundtrack was released by Warner Bros. Records on 10 July 2007, the eve of the film's release. For his work on the film, Hooper was nominated for a World Soundtrack Discovery Award. The trailer prominently features the cues "Divine Crusade" by X-Ray Dog and "DNA Reactor" by Pfeifer Broz. Music.
The film also featured the song "Boys Will Be Boys" by The Ordinary Boys which played during a scene in the Gryffindor common room (at min. 31:35). According to Rupert Grint, David Yates used the song to create a more "casual" feel to the Common Room.

Differences from the book
At 766 pages in the British edition and 870 in the American edition, Order of the Phoenix is the longest book in the Harry Potter series, however the film is the second shortest. Screenwriter Michael Goldenberg described his task to cut down the novel as searching for "the best equivalent way to tell the story. My job was to stay true to the spirit of the book, rather than to the letter". Goldenberg said that Rowling told him, the producers, and Yates that "she just wanted to see a great movie, and gave [them] permission to take whatever liberties [they] felt [they] needed to take to translate the book into a movie she would love". Cutting down the book to meet the time frame of the film, Goldenberg explained, became "clearer when [he] figured out that the organising principle of the screenplay was to narrate Harry's emotional journey". He and Yates "looked for every opportunity to get everything [they] could in there. And where [they] couldn't, to sort of pay homage to it, to have it somewhere in the background or to feel like it could be taking place off-screen".
One cut Goldenberg had to make, which he "hated" to do, was the absence of Quidditch, the Wizarding sport. "The truth is that any movie made of this book, whoever made it, that had included the Quidditch subplot would have been a lesser film", he said. In the book, Ron grows as a character by trying out for the Quidditch team. "Ron facing challenges and coming into his own in the same way that Harry is, we tried to get that into the film in other ways, as much as possible. So, you feel like, if not the details of that story, at least the spirit of it is present in the film". The change disappointed actor Rupert Grint who had been "quite looking forward to the Quidditch stuff".
In a significant scene in the book, Harry sees a memory of his own father humiliating Snape in their school days, and Snape insulting his mother after she stood up for him. In the film, it is abbreviated to an "idea", in Goldenberg's words. "It's an iconic moment when you realise your parents are normal, flawed human beings. ... Things get trimmed out, but I kept the meat of that in there – and that was what really gave me the coming-of-age story." Young Lily Potter did not appear at all, but promotional screenshots showed unknown teenager Susie Shinner in the role.
The scene at St Mungo's, the hospital where Harry and friends run into classmate Neville Longbottom and learn that his parents were tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange, was cut because it required the construction of a new set. The main purpose of the action of the scene was relocated to the Room of Requirement after one of Dumbledore's Army's lessons. Also, to speed up the film's climax, several events in the Ministry leading up to Harry's battle with Voldemort were removed, including the brain room. Mrs. Weasley's encounter with a boggart at Grimmauld Place, Ron, Hermione and Draco becoming prefects, the appearance of Mundungus Fletcher, and Firenze teaching Divination followed suit.
The character of Kreacher the house-elf, who was included in the script only at Rowling's request, has a larger part in the book than the film. In the novel, he is seen saving some of the Black family's artefacts which the Order of the Phoenix throw away, including a locket that ends up being extremely important in the seventh book. "It was kind of tricky to raise that in our story, because it's for so much later", Yates said. "We figured we can probably introduce it later, and that's the approach we took". Whilst Kreacher remained, all parts involving Dobby were cut, and his important actions were given to other characters.
Rita Skeeter, the journalist played by Miranda Richardson in Goblet of Fire, was also removed. In the book, Hermione blackmails her into writing an article that supports Harry as the rest of the wizarding world denies his claims. Richardson noted that "it's never gonna be the book on film, exactly. ... They'll take certain aspects from the book and make it something that they hope is going to be commercial and that people want to see".

Release

Marketing

The first trailer was released on 17 November 2006, attached to another WB film, Happy Feet. It was made available online on 20 November 2006, on the Happy Feet website. The international trailer debuted online on 22 April 2007 at 14:00 UTC. On 4 May 2007, the US trailer was shown before Spider-Man 3.
Three posters released on the Internet that showed Harry accompanied by six classmates, including Hermione Granger, generated some controversy by the media. They were essentially the same picture, though one advertised the IMAX release. In one poster, the profile of Hermione, played by Emma Watson, was made curvier as the outline of her breasts was enhanced. Melissa Anelli, webmistress of noted fan site The Leaky Cauldron, wrote:
The video game version, designed by EA UK, was released 25 June 2007, as well as Harry Potter: Mastering Magic mobile game by EA Mobile. Lego produced just one set, a model of Hogwarts, the lowest number of sets for a film so far. NECA produced a series of action figures, while a larger array of smaller figures was also produced by PopCo Entertainment, a Corgi International company.

Theatrical release
The film was the third Harry Potter film to be given a simultaneous release in conventional theatres and IMAX. The IMAX release featured the full movie in 2D and the final 20 minutes of the film in 3D. According to estimates in March 2007, by Warner Bros. Pictures, the film would debut on over 10,000 theatre screens during the summer.
Previews of the film began in March 2007 in the Chicago area. Under tight security to prevent piracy, WB had security guards patrol the aisles, looking for cell phone cameras or small recording devices, at a preview in Japan. The world premiere took place in Tokyo, Japan on 28 June 2007. MySpace users could bring copies of their online profiles to gain free admission to sneak previews in eight different cities across the country on 28 June 2007. The UK premiere took place on 3 July 2007 in London's Odeon Leicester Square, during which author J. K. Rowling made a public appearance. The US premiere took place on 8 July in Los Angeles. After the premiere, the three young stars of the film series, Radcliffe, Grint, and Watson, were honoured with a ceremony where their handprints, footprints, and "wandprints" were placed in the cement in front of Grauman's Chinese Theatre.
Originally, Warner Bros. set the Australian release date as 6 September 2007, nearly two months after the majority of other release dates. However, after complaints from the Australian community, including a petition garnering 2,000 signatures the date was pulled back to 11 July 2007. The release dates of the film in the UK and US were also moved back, both from 13 July, to 12 and 11 July, respectively.
Even though the book is the longest in the series (over 700 pages), the film is 138 minutes long (2 hours and 18 minutes), the second shortest in the entire film series.

Home media
The DVDs included additional scenes, a feature showing a day in the life of Natalia Tena, who played Nymphadora Tonks, an A&E documentary about the films and books, and a featurette on film editing in Phoenix. The DVD-ROM features a timeline and a sneak peek of the next film, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2009). The HD DVD and Blu-ray contain additional features, such as the "in-movie experience", a video commentary in which members of Dumbledore's Army share their favourite moments from the production of the film, and "focus points" featurettes on how certain scenes of the film were made. The HD DVD also includes an exclusive feature called "community screening", which enables owners of the HD DVD to watch the film together over the Internet. Order of the Phoenix was the seventh best-selling DVD of 2007, with 10.14 million units. The high-definition DVDs had combined sales of 179,500 copies, with more units coming from the Blu-ray version. The film overall made a revenue of $200.2 million from home video sales in the US.
There was also a third DVD with extras featuring a behind-the-scenes look at the sets of the movie. This can only be found in those purchased at Target stores (Future Shop in Canada) since it is a Target exclusive. The package included a one-time-only code that activated a digital copy of the film, which may be played on a computer with Windows Media Player. The digital copy is not playable on Macintosh or Apple Inc. iPod devices. This issue was partially addressed, with the film being made available on the iTunes Store in the UK but not the US.

Reception

Box office
The film opened to a worldwide 5-day opening of $333 million, the fourteenth-biggest opening of all time. In the United States, tickets for hundreds of midnight showings of the film, bought from online ticket-seller Fandango, were sold out, making up approximately 90% of the site's weekly ticket sales. In the US and Canada, midnight screenings (very early morning on 11 July) brought in $12 million from 2,311 midnight exhibitions making the showings "the most successful batch of midnight exhibitions ever". In one-night earnings, Phoenix is behind only At World's End, which had debuted four hours earlier on its date. In studio documents leaked in July 2010, it was revealed the film "lost" Warner Bros. Pictures about $167 million.
In North America, Phoenix earned an additional $32.2 million on Wednesday, post-midnight showings, making it the biggest single-day Wednesday gross in box office history, with a total of $44.2 million from 4,285 theatres. That amount topped Sony Pictures' Spider-Man 2, which held the record since 2004 with its $40.4 million take on a Wednesday, until this record was broken in 2009 by Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen with $62 million. It was also the fifth-biggest opening day for a movie in history, at the time, surpassing At World's End's $42.9 million. It earned $1.9 million from a record-breaking 91 IMAX screens, the highest opening day ever for any IMAX day of the week, beating Spider-Man 3's $1.8 million. In the UK the result was similar. The film made £16.5 million during its opening 4-day run, breaking the UK box office record for the biggest 4-day opening weekend ever.
Phoenix's gross was at $292.4 million in the US and Canada, making it the fifth-highest-grossing film of 2007 in these regions, and at £49.2 million, or $101.4 million in the UK. Internationally, it has grossed $648 million, the seventh-highest grosser ever overseas, for a worldwide total of $942.9 million making it the second-highest-grossing film of the year closely behind Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End's $960 million gross. It became the sixth-highest-grossing film in history at the time, the second-highest-grossing Potter film worldwide, and the second Potter film to break the $900 million mark, as well as the fourth-highest-grossing Potter film in the franchise behind Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2's $1.341 billion, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone's $974 million, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1's $960 million and the highest-grossing 2007 film in Australia and the UK. IMAX Corporation and Warner Bros. Pictures announced that the film has made over $35 million on IMAX screens, worldwide, with an impressive per-screen average of $243,000 making it the highest-grossing live-action IMAX release in history. In South Africa the film opened at number 1 with a total of $944,082.00, being screened at 87 theatres.

Critical response

On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 78% based on 257 reviews, with an average rating of 6.9/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "It's not easy to take the longest Harry Potter book and streamline it into the shortest HP movie, but director David Yates does a bang up job of it, creating an Order of the Phoenix that's entertaining and action-packed." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 71 out of 100, based on 37 critics, indicating "generally favourable reviews". Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A−" on an A+ to F scale.
Roger Ebert gave the film 2.5 of 4 stars saying "Harry no longer has as much joy." The review by Charles Frederick of The Telegraph was headlined "Potter film is the best and darkest yet". Colin Bertram of the New York Daily News gave the film four out of four stars, calling it the best Potter film yet and wrote that "die-hard Potter addicts will rejoice that Yates has distilled J. K. Rowling's broad universe with care and reverence". Mark Adams of The Sunday Mirror, while giving the film four out of five stars, called it "a dark and delicious delight [and] a must-see movie". Rene Rodriguez of The Miami Herald gave the film three stars out of four and wrote that the film "is the first installment in the soon-to-be series-of-seven that doesn't seem like just another spinoff capitalizing on the money-minting Harry Potter brand name. Instead, Phoenix feels like a real 'movie'".
Imelda Staunton's performance as Dolores Umbridge and Helena Bonham Carter's as Bellatrix Lestrange were widely acclaimed; Staunton was described as "coming close to stealing the show" by The Guardian and the "perfect choice for the part" and "one of the film's greatest pleasures" by Variety. Bonham Carter was said to be a "shining but underused talent" by The Times. Variety further praised Alan Rickman's portrayal of Severus Snape, writing that he "may have outdone himself; seldom has an actor done more with less than he does here". Newcomer Evanna Lynch, playing Luna Lovegood, also received good word from a number of reviewers, including The New York Times, which declared her "spellbinding".
Peter Travers of Rolling Stone also lauded the three principal actors' achievements, especially Radcliffe: "One of the joys of this film is watching Daniel Radcliffe grow so impressively into the role of Harry. He digs deep into the character and into Harry's nightmares. It's a sensational performance, touching all the bases from tender to fearful". Rolling Stone's review also classified the film as better than the previous four instalments in the series, by losing the "candy-ass aspect" of the first two and "raising the bar" from the "heat and resonance" of the third and fourth. Travers called the film "the best of the series so far, [with] the laughs, the jitters and the juice to make even nonbelievers wild about Harry".
Leo Lewis of The Times (London) expressed disappointment that the three main actors were not able to fully advance the emotional sides of their respective characters, weakening the film. The San Francisco Chronicle complained about a "lousy" storyline, alleging that the first twenty minutes of the film, when Harry is put on trial for performing magic outside of school and threatened with expulsion, but is cleared of all charges, did not advance the plot. Kirk Honeycutt of The Hollywood Reporter wrote that Phoenix is "quite possibly the least enjoyable of the [series] so far", and that despite "several eye-catching moments", "the magic – movie magic, that is – is mostly missing". The review also criticised the under use of the "cream of British acting", noting the brief appearances of Helena Bonham Carter, Maggie Smith, Emma Thompson, David Thewlis, Richard Griffiths, and Julie Walters.

Accolades
Before it was released, Order of the Phoenix was nominated in a new category at the 2007 MTV Movie Awards, Best Summer Movie You Haven't Seen Yet. On 26 August 2007, the film won the award for Choice Summer Movie – Drama/Action Adventure at the Teen Choice Awards.
The film was also nominated for several awards at the 2007 Scream Awards presented by Spike TV, in the categories of The Ultimate Scream, Best Fantasy Movie, and Best Sequel. Daniel Radcliffe was nominated in the Fantasy Hero categories, respectively. The film won for Best Sequel and Ralph Fiennes won for "Most Vile Villain". The film picked up three awards at the inaugural ITV National Movie Awards, taking Best Family Film, Best Actor for Radcliffe and Best Actress for Emma Watson. The film was one of ten nominees for a 2007 Hollywood Movie of the Year. It was also nominated for Best Live Action Family Film at the Broadcast Film Critics Association Awards and won the 2007 People's Choice Award for "Favorite Movie Drama". The production was also nominated for six awards at the 13th Empire Awards, organised by Empire, including Best Film, David Yates won Best Director. Yates later received the BAFTA Britannia Award for Artistic Excellence in Directing for his four Harry Potter films, which includes Order of the Phoenix.
Nicholas Hooper received a nomination for a World Soundtrack Discovery Award for his score to the film. Imelda Staunton was nominated in the "British Actress in a Supporting Role" category at the London Film Critics Circle Awards. At the 2008 BAFTA Awards, the film was nominated for "Best Production Design" and "Best Special Visual Effects". Order of the Phoenix was also nominated for the awards from the Art Directors Guild and Costume Designers Guild, and was awarded for "Outstanding Special Effects in a Motion Picture" by the Visual Effects Society out of six nominations.
The British Academy Children's Awards (BAFTA) nominated Order of the Phoenix for Best Feature Film in 2007 and the Hugo Awards nominated the film for Best Dramatic Presentation (Long Form) in 2008.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone is a fantasy novel by British author J. K. Rowling. It is the first novel in the Harry Potter series and was Rowling's debut novel. It follows Harry Potter, a young wizard who discovers his magical heritage on his eleventh birthday when he receives a letter of acceptance from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. With the help of his friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, Harry unravels a mystery involving the dark wizard Lord Voldemort.
The book was first published in the United Kingdom on 26 June 1997 by Bloomsbury. It was published in the United States the following year by Scholastic Corporation under the title Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. It won most of the British book awards that were judged by children and other awards in the US. The book reached the top of the New York Times list of best-selling fiction in August 1999, and stayed near the top of that list for much of 1999 and 2000. It has been translated into 85 other languages and made into a feature-length film of the same name, as have all six of its sequels. The novel has sold in excess of 120 million copies, making it the fourth best-selling book of all time.
Most reviews were very favourable, commenting on Rowling's imagination, humour, simple, direct style and clever plot construction, although a few complained that the final chapters seemed rushed. The writing has been compared to that of Jane Austen, one of Rowling's favourite authors; Roald Dahl, whose works dominated children's stories before the appearance of Harry Potter; and the ancient Greek story-teller Homer. While some commentators thought the book looked backward to Victorian and Edwardian boarding school stories, others thought it placed the genre firmly in the modern world by featuring contemporary ethical and social issues, as well as showing overcoming obstacles like bullying.
The Harry Potter series has been used as a source of object lessons in educational techniques, sociological analysis, and marketing.

Plot
Harry Potter lives with his abusive uncle and aunt, Vernon and Petunia Dursley, and their bullying son, Dudley, in the fictional English town of Little Whinging. On Harry's eleventh birthday, he learns that he is a wizard when a half-giant named Rubeus Hagrid invites him to attend Hogwarts, a school of magic. Hagrid explains that when Harry was an infant, a dark wizard named Voldemort murdered Harry's parents and tried to kill Harry as well. However, Voldemort's killing curse rebounded and seemingly destroyed him, leaving a lightning bolt-shaped scar on Harry's forehead.
Hagrid takes Harry to Diagon Alley, where Harry discovers he is famous among wizards. He buys a wand, an owl named Hedwig, and other school supplies. A month later, Harry takes the Hogwarts Express to Hogwarts. During the journey, he befriends Ron Weasley, a fellow first-year student. He also meets Hermione Granger and has a confrontation with Draco Malfoy. At Hogwarts, a magical Sorting Hat assigns each first-year student to a House. Harry, Ron, and Hermione are assigned to Gryffindor, although the Hat considers putting Harry in Slytherin.
Harry's skill at broomstick flying earns him a place on the Gryffindor Quidditch team as the Seeker. He develops a dislike for the Potions professor Severus Snape, who seems to hate Harry. One night, Harry and Ron discover a gigantic three-headed dog guarding a trapdoor. The two boys later save Hermione from a troll and begin a friendship with her. During Harry's first Quidditch match, his broomstick attempts to throw him off. Snape's strange behaviour during the match convinces Hermione that Snape jinxed Harry's broom. On Christmas, Harry receives an anonymous gift—his father's invisibility cloak. While using the cloak to explore the school undetected, he discovers the Mirror of Erised, which shows the viewer what they most desire. Harry sees his parents and other members of his family in the mirror.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione learn that the three-headed dog is guarding a magical object called the Philosopher's Stone, which grants its user immortality. A centaur named Firenze warns Harry that Voldemort is plotting to steal the Stone to restore his body. When the headmaster, Albus Dumbledore, is lured away from Hogwarts, Harry and his friends fear the theft is imminent and descend through the trapdoor to retrieve the Stone. Various obstacles force Ron and Hermione to remain behind while Harry approaches the Stone. He encounters Professor Quirrell, the Defence Against the Dark Arts instructor, who explains that he serves Voldemort and that it was he who jinxed Harry's broom; Snape was trying to save Harry during the match. Quirrell attempts to retrieve the Stone from the Mirror of Erised, but cannot figure out how. When Harry looks in the Mirror, he feels the Stone drop into his pocket. Quirrell then reveals that Voldemort has possessed his body, and shows Harry Voldemort's face on the back of his head. Quirrell attempts to seize the Stone, but his flesh burns upon contact with Harry. As Harry and Quirrell struggle, Harry's scar begins to burn, and he passes out.
Harry awakens in the school's infirmary. Dumbledore explains that Harry survived because he is protected by a magical charm that was created when his mother died trying to protect him. Quirrell's hatred and greed caused him to burn upon contact with Harry, and Voldemort abandoned him to die. Dumbledore also reveals that the Stone has been destroyed. During the school's end-of-year feast, Gryffindor is awarded the House Cup. Harry then returns to the home of the Dursleys for the summer.

Characters
Harry Potter is an orphan whom Rowling imagined as a "scrawny, black-haired, green eyed and bespectacled boy who didn't know he was a wizard." She developed the series' story and characters to explain how Harry came to be in this situation and how his life unfolded from there. Apart from the first chapter, the events of this book take place just before and in the year following Harry's eleventh birthday. Voldemort's attack left a lightning bolt-shaped scar on Harry's forehead, which produces stabbing pains whenever Voldemort is present. Harry has a natural talent for Quidditch and became the first person in a century to get on their team in their first year.
Ron Weasley is Harry's age, and Rowling describes him as the ultimate best friend "always there when you need him". He is freckled, red-haired, and quite tall. He grew up in a fairly large pure-blood family as the sixth born of seven children. Although his family is quite poor, they still live comfortably and happily. His loyalty and bravery in the face of a game of Wizard Chess plays a vital part in finding the Philosopher's Stone.
Hermione Granger, the daughter of an all-Muggle family, is a bossy girl who has apparently memorised most of the textbooks before the start of term. Rowling described Hermione as a "very logical, upright, and good" character with "a lot of insecurity and a great fear of failure beneath her swottiness". Despite her nagging efforts to keep Harry and Ron out of trouble, she becomes a close friend of the two boys after they save her from a troll and her magical and analytical skills play an important role in finding the Philosopher's Stone. She has bushy brown hair and rather large front teeth.
Neville Longbottom is a plump, diffident boy, so forgetful that his grandmother gives him a Remembrall, to remind him if he forgets something. Neville's magical abilities are weak and appeared just in time to save his life when he was eight. Despite his timidity, Neville will fight anyone after some encouragement or if he thinks it is right and important.
Rubeus Hagrid, a half-giant nearly 12 feet (3.7 m) tall, with tangled black hair and beard, who was expelled from Hogwarts and his wand was snapped in half (resulting in him never to use a wand again), though Professor Dumbledore let him stay on as the school's gamekeeper, a job which enables him to give lavish affection, care and even pet names (such as Norbert the dragon) on even the most dangerous of magical creatures. Hagrid is fiercely loyal to Dumbledore and quickly becomes a close friend of Harry, Ron and, later, Hermione, but his carelessness makes him unreliable.
Professor Albus Dumbledore, a tall, thin man who wears half-moon spectacles, has silver hair and a beard long enough to tuck into his belt, is the headmaster of Hogwarts, and thought to be the only wizard Voldemort fears. Dumbledore, while renowned for his achievements in magic, shrugs off praise, though he is aware of his own brilliance. Rowling described him as the "epitome of goodness".
Professor Minerva McGonagall, a tall, severe-looking woman with black hair tied in a tight bun, teaches Transfiguration and is able to transform herself into a cat. She is Deputy Headmistress and Head of Gryffindor House.
Petunia Dursley, the sister of Harry's mother Lily, is a thin woman with a long neck that she uses for spying on the neighbours. As a Muggle, she regards her magical sister as a freak and tries to pretend that she never existed.
Vernon Dursley, the husband of Petunia Dursley, is a heavily built man whose irascible bluster covers a narrow mind and a fear of anything unusual.
Dudley Dursley is an overweight, spoilt bully and Harry's cousin.
Draco Malfoy is a slim, pale boy who speaks in a bored drawl. He is arrogant about his skill in Quidditch, and despises anyone who is not a pure-blood wizard and wizards who do not share his views. His parents had supported Voldemort, but changed sides after the dark wizard's disappearance, claiming they had been bewitched. Draco avoids direct confrontations and tries to get Harry and his friends into trouble.
Oliver Wood is a fifth year who acts as Harry's Quidditch captain and keeper for the Gryffindor Quidditch team.
Professor Quirrell is a twitching, stammering, and nervous man who teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts. Reputedly he was a brilliant scholar, but his nerve was shattered by an encounter with vampires. Quirrell wears a turban to conceal the fact that he is voluntarily possessed by Voldemort, whose face appears on the back of Quirrell's head.
Professor Severus Snape, who has a hooked nose, sallow complexion, and greasy black hair, teaches Potions, but would prefer to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts. Snape favours pupils in his own House of Slytherin, and appears to delight in humiliating those from other houses, especially Harry. Several incidents, beginning with the shooting pain in Harry's scar during the start-of-term feast, lead Harry and his friends to think Snape is aiding Voldemort.
Argus Filch, the school caretaker who knows the school's secret passages better than anyone else except, perhaps, the Weasley twins. His cat, Mrs. Norris, aids his constant hunt for misbehaving pupils.
Other members of staff include: the dumpy Herbology teacher and Head of Hufflepuff House Professor Sprout,  Professor Flitwick, the tiny and excitable Charms teacher and Head of Ravenclaw House, the soporific History of magic teacher, Professor Binns, a ghost who does not seem to have noticed his own death, and Madam Hooch, the Quidditch coach, who is strict, but a considerate and methodical teacher. The poltergeist Peeves wanders around the castle causing trouble wherever he can.
In the book, Rowling introduces an eclectic cast of characters. The first character to be introduced is Vernon Dursley, Harry's uncle. Most of the actions centre on the eponymous hero, Harry Potter, an orphan who escapes his miserable childhood with the Dursley family. Rowling imagined him as a "scrawny, black-haired, bespectacled boy who didn't know he was a wizard" and says she transferred part of her pain about losing her mother to him. During the book, Harry makes two close friends, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger. Ron is described by Rowling as the ultimate best friend, "always there when you need him". Rowling has described Hermione as a "very logical, upright and good" character with "a lot of insecurity and a great fear of failure beneath her swottiness".
Rowling also imagined a supporting cast of adults. The headmaster of Hogwarts is the powerful, but kind wizard Albus Dumbledore, who becomes Harry's confidant. Rowling described him as "the epitome of goodness". His right hand is severe Minerva McGonagall, the friendly half-giant Rubeus Hagrid, who saved Harry from the Dursley family and the sinister Severus Snape. Professor Quirrell is also featured in the novel.
The main antagonists are Draco Malfoy, an elitist, bullying classmate, and Lord Voldemort, the most powerful evil wizard who becomes disembodied when he tries to kill baby Harry. According to a 1999 interview with Rowling, the character of Voldemort was created as a literary foil for Harry and his backstory was intentionally not fleshed-out at first:

The basic idea... Harry, I saw Harry very very very clearly. Very vividly. And I knew he didn't know he was a wizard. ... And so then I kind of worked backwards from that position to find out how that could be, that he wouldn't know what he was. ... When he was one year old, the most evil wizard for hundreds and hundreds of years attempted to kill him. He killed Harry's parents, and then he tried to kill Harry—he tried to curse him. ... And—so—but for some mysterious reason, the curse didn't work on Harry. So he's left with this lightning bolt shaped scar on his forehead and the curse rebounded upon the evil wizard, who has been in hiding ever since.

Development, publication and reception

Development
The book, which was Rowling's debut novel, was written between approximately June 1990 and some time in 1995. In 1990, Jo Rowling, as she preferred to be known, wanted to move with her boyfriend to a flat in Manchester and in her words, "One weekend after flat hunting, I took the train back to London on my own and the idea for Harry Potter fell into my head... A scrawny, little, black-haired, bespectacled boy became more and more of a wizard to me... I began to write Philosopher's Stone that very evening. Although, the first couple of pages look nothing like the finished product." Then, Rowling's mother died and, to cope with her pain, Rowling transferred her own anguish to the orphan Harry. Rowling spent six years working on Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.
Rowling sent the book to a literary agent and a publisher and then the second agent she approached spent a year trying to sell the book to publishers, most of whom thought it was too long at about 90,000 words. Barry Cunningham, who was building a portfolio of distinctive fantasies by new authors for Bloomsbury Children's Books, recommended accepting the book and the eight-year-old daughter of Bloomsbury's chief executive said it was "so much better than anything else".
After it was accepted by Bloomsbury, she obtained a grant of £8,000 from the Scottish Arts Council, which enabled her to plan the sequels.

Publication and reception in the United Kingdom

Bloomsbury accepted the book, paying Rowling a £2,500 advance and Cunningham sent proof copies to carefully chosen authors, critics and booksellers in order to obtain comments that could be quoted when the book was launched. He was less concerned about the book's length than about its author's name, since the title sounded like a boys' book to him and he believed boys preferred books by male authors. Rowling therefore adopted the pen name J. K. Rowling just before publication.
In June 1997, Bloomsbury published Philosopher's Stone with an initial print run of 500 copies in hardback, three hundred of which were distributed to libraries. Her original name, "Joanne Rowling", can be found on the copyright page of all British editions until September 1999. (The 1998 first American edition would remove reference to "Joanne" completely.) The short initial print run was standard for first novels and Cunningham hoped booksellers would read the book and recommend it to customers. Examples from this initial print run have sold for as much as US$471,000 in a 2021 Heritage auction. Thomas Taylor created the cover for the first edition.
Lindsey Fraser, who had previously supplied one of the blurb comments, wrote what is thought to be the first published review, in The Scotsman on 28 June 1997. She described Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone as "a hugely entertaining thriller" and Rowling as "a first-rate writer for children". Another early review, in The Herald, said: "I have yet to find a child who can put it down." Newspapers outside Scotland started to notice the book, with glowing reviews in The Guardian and The Sunday Times and in September 1997 Books for Keeps, a magazine that specialised in children's books, gave the novel four stars out of five. The Sunday Times said: "comparisons to Dahl are, this time, justified", while The Guardian called it "a richly textured novel given lift-off by an inventive wit" and The Scotsman said it had "all the makings of a classic".
In 1997 the UK edition won a National Book Award and a gold medal in the 9- to 11-year-olds category of the Nestlé Smarties Book Prize. The Smarties award, which is voted for by children, made the book well known within six months of publication, while most children's books have to wait for years. The following year, Philosopher's Stone won almost all the other major British awards that were decided by children. It was also shortlisted for children's books awards adjudicated by adults, but did not win. Sandra Beckett commented that books that were popular with children were regarded as undemanding and as not of the highest literary standards – for example, the literary establishment disdained the works of Dahl, an overwhelming favourite of children before the appearance of Rowling's books. In 2003, the novel was listed at number 22 on the BBC's survey The Big Read.
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone won two publishing industry awards given for sales rather than literary merit, the British Book Awards Children's Book of the Year and the Booksellers' Association / Bookseller Author of the Year. By March 1999 UK editions had sold just over 300,000 copies and the story was still the UK's best-selling title in December 2001. A Braille edition was published in May 1998 by the Scottish Braille Press.
Platform 9+ 3⁄4, from which the Hogwarts Express left London, was commemorated in the real-life King's Cross railway station with a sign and a trolley apparently passing through the wall.

US publication and reception

Scholastic Corporation bought the US rights at the Bologna Book Fair in April 1997 for US$105,000, an unusually high sum for a children's book. Scholastic's Arthur Levine thought that "philosopher" sounded too archaic for readers and after some discussion (including the proposed title "Harry Potter and the School of Magic"), the American edition was published in September 1998 under the title Rowling suggested, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. Rowling later said that she regretted this change and would have fought it if she had been in a stronger position at the time. Philip Nel has pointed out that the change lost the connection with alchemy and some other changes lost the meaning of other terms changed in translation, for example from "crumpet" to "muffin". While Rowling accepted the change from both the British English "mum" and Seamus Finnigan's Irish variant "mam" to the American variant "mom" in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, she vetoed this change in the later books, which was then reversed in later editions of Philosopher's Stone. However, Nel considered that Scholastic's translations were considerably more sensitive than most of those imposed on British English books of the time and that some other changes could be regarded as useful copyedits. Since the UK editions of early titles in the series were published months prior to the American versions, some American readers became familiar with the British English versions owing to having bought them from online retailers.
At first the most prestigious reviewers ignored the book, leaving it to book trade and library publications such as Kirkus Reviews and Booklist, which examined it only by the entertainment-oriented criteria of children's fiction. However, more penetrating specialist reviews (such as one by Cooperative Children's Book Center Choices, which noted complexity, depth and consistency in the world that Rowling had built) attracted the attention of reviewers in major newspapers. Although The Boston Globe and Michael Winerip in The New York Times complained that the final chapters were the weakest part of the book, they and most other American reviewers gave glowing praise.
A year later, the US edition was selected as an American Library Association Notable Book, a Publishers Weekly Best Book of 1998 and a New York Public Library 1998 Best Book of the Year and won Parenting Magazine's Book of the Year Award for 1998, the School Library Journal Best Book of the Year and the American Library Association Best Book for Young Adults. In 2012 it was ranked number 3 on a list of the top 100 children's novels published by School Library Journal.
In August 1999, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone topped the New York Times list of best-selling fiction and stayed near the top of the list for much of 1999 and 2000, until the New York Times split its list into children's and adult sections under pressure from other publishers who were eager to see their books given higher placings. Publishers Weekly's report in December 2001 on cumulative sales of children's fiction placed Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone 19th among hardbacks (over 5 million copies) and 7th among paperbacks (over 6.6 million copies).
In May 2008, Scholastic announced the creation of a 10th Anniversary Edition of the book that was released on 1 October 2008 to mark the tenth anniversary of the original American release. For the fifteenth anniversary of the books, Scholastic re-released Sorcerer's Stone, along with the other six novels in the series, with new cover art by Kazu Kibuishi in 2013.

Translations

By mid-2008, official translations of the book had been published in 67 languages. By November 2017, the book had been translated into 80 languages, the 80th being Lowland Scots. In 2025, Rowling's website reported that the novel had been translated into 85 languages. Bloomsbury have published translations in Latin and in Ancient Greek, with the latter being described as "one of the most important pieces of Ancient Greek prose written in many centuries".

Style and themes

Philip Nel has drawn attention to Jane Austen's influence on Rowling, whom Rowling has admired since the age of twelve. The styles of both novelists encourage rereading, as details that appear insignificant are discovered to foreshadow important events or characters much later in the story (for example, the brief mention of Sirius Black near the beginning of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone foreshadows his importance as a major character in the third to fifth books). Like Austen's heroines, Harry often finds himself re-examining his beliefs as the books draw to a close. Also reminiscent of Austen is the lively social custom of the communal reading of letters. Furthermore, both authors satirise social behaviour and give characters names that reinforce their personalities. However, for Nel, one point of divergence between the two authors is that Rowling's humour tends towards caricature, with names resembling those found in the works of Charles Dickens. Amanda Cockrell further noted that Rowling's names invoke the dominant trait of their owners through allusions drawn from sources as varied as Roman mythology and eighteenth-century German literature. Rowling, like C. S. Lewis (author of the Narnia series), blurs the distinction between juvenile and adult fiction. Nel also noted that, like many good writers for children, Rowling combines several literary genres‍—‌fantasy, young adult fiction, boarding school stories, and Bildungsroman, among others.
Some reviewers compared Philosopher's Stone to the stories of Roald Dahl, who died in 1990. Many writers since the 1970s had been hailed as his successor, but none had attained anything near his popularity with children and, in a poll conducted shortly after the launch of Philosopher's Stone, seven of the ten most popular children's books were by Dahl, including the one in top place. The only other children's author of comparable popularity in the late 1990s was an American, R. L. Stine. Some of the story elements in Philosopher's Stone resembled parts of Dahl's stories. For example, the hero of James and the Giant Peach lost his parents and had to live with a pair of abusive aunts ‍—‌ one fat and one thin rather like Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, who treated Harry as a servant. However Harry Potter was a distinctive creation, able to take on the responsibilities of an adult while remaining a child inside.
Librarian Nancy Knapp and marketing professor Stephen Brown noted the liveliness and detail of descriptions, especially of shop scenes such as Diagon Alley. Tad Brennan commented that Rowling's writing resembles that of Homer: "rapid, plain, and direct in expression". Stephen King admired "the sort of playful details of which only British fantasists seem capable" and concluded that they worked because Rowling enjoys a quick giggle and then moves briskly forward.
Nicholas Tucker described the early Harry Potter books as looking back to Victorian and Edwardian children's stories: Hogwarts was an old-style boarding school in which the teachers addressed pupils formally by their surnames and were most concerned with the reputations of the houses with which they were associated; characters' personalities were plainly shown by their appearances, starting with the Dursleys; evil or malicious characters were to be crushed rather than reformed, including Argus Filch's cat Mrs Norris; and the hero, a mistreated orphan who found his true place in life, was charismatic and good at sports, but considerate and protective towards the weak. Several other commentators have noted that the books present a rigidly stratified society and include many social stereotypes. However, Karin Westerman drew parallels with 1990s Britain: a class system that was breaking down but defended by those whose power and status it upheld; the multi-ethnic composition of Hogwarts' students; the racial tensions between the various intelligent species; and school bullying.
Susan Hall wrote that there is no rule of law in the books, as the actions of Ministry of Magic officials are unconstrained by laws, accountability or any kind of legal challenge. This provides Voldemort an opportunity to offer his own horrific version of order. As a side-effect, Harry and Hermione, who were brought up in the rigidly regulated Muggle world, find solutions by thinking in ways unfamiliar to wizards. For example, Hermione notes that one obstacle to finding the Philosopher's Stone is a test of logic rather than magical power, and that most wizards have no chance of solving it.
Nel suggested that the unflattering characterisation of the dully conventional, status-conscious, materialistic Dursleys was Rowling's reaction to the family policies of the British government in the early 1990s, which treated the married heterosexual couple as the "preferred norm", at a time when the author was a single mother. Harry's relationships with adult and juvenile wizards spring from affection and loyalty. This is evident from his pleasure in being an occasional temporary member of the Weasley family, and in his treatment of first Rubeus Hagrid and later Remus Lupin and Sirius Black as father-figures.

Legacy

Sequels
The second book, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, was originally published in the UK on 2 July 1998 and later, in the US on 2 June 1999. Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was then published a year later in the UK on 8 July 1999 and in the US on 8 September 1999. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was published on 8 July 2000 at the same time by Bloomsbury and Scholastic. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is the longest book in the series at 766 pages in the UK version and 870 pages in the US version. It was published worldwide in English on 21 June 2003. Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was published on 16 July 2005 and sold 11 million copies in the first 24 hours of its worldwide release. The seventh and final novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, was published on 21 July 2007. The book sold 11 million copies within 24 hours of its release: 2.7 million copies in the UK and 8.3 million in the US.

Illustrated version
An illustrated version of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was released on 6 October 2015, with illustrations by Jim Kay. The book carries over 100 illustrations and will be followed by illustrated versions of all seven books from the series by the same artist.

Audio books
On 20 November 2015, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was released in audio book format simultaneously, both in the UK and the US by Pottermore Publishing. The UK edition is narrated by Stephen Fry and the US edition is narrated by Jim Dale. On 4 November 2025, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was released as a full-cast audio edition internationally by Pottermore Publishing and Amazon's subsidiary, Audible.

Podcast version
In May 2020, a reading podcast by Spotify was created and entitled Harry Potter at Home: Readings. Each chapter is narrated by a celebrity guest from the Harry Potter and Wizarding World franchises.

Film adaptation

In 1999, Rowling sold the film rights of the first two Harry Potter books to Warner Bros. for a reported £1 million. Rowling demanded that the principal cast be kept strictly British, but allowed for the casting of Irish actors such as Richard Harris as Dumbledore and of foreign actors as characters of the same nationalities in later books. After extensive casting, filming began in September 2000 at Leavesden Film Studios and in London, with production ending in July 2001. Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was released in London on 14 November 2001. Reviewers' comments were positive, as reflected by an 81% Fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes and by a score of 65% at Metacritic, representing "generally favourable reviews".

Video games

Five independent video games by different developers were released between 2001 and 2003 by Electronic Arts, that were loosely based on the film and book:

Uses in education and business
Writers on education and business subjects have used the book as an object lesson. Writing about clinical teaching in medical schools, Jennifer Conn contrasted Snape's technical expertise with his intimidating behaviour towards students. Quidditch coach Madam Hooch on the other hand illustrated useful techniques in the teaching of physical skills, including breaking down complex actions into sequences of simple ones and helping students to avoid common errors. Joyce Fields wrote that the books illustrate four of the five main topics in a typical first-year sociology class: "sociological concepts including culture, society, and socialisation; stratification and social inequality; social institutions; and social theory".
Stephen Brown noted that the early Harry Potter books, especially Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, were a runaway success despite inadequate and poorly organised marketing. Brown advised marketing executives to be less preoccupied with rigorous statistical analyses and the "analysis, planning, implementation, and control" model of management. Instead he recommended that they should treat the stories as "a marketing masterclass", full of enticing products and brand names. For example, a real-world analogue of Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans was introduced under licence in 2000 by toymaker Hasbro.

Release history


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (also known as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone in the United States, India and the Philippines) is a 2001 fantasy film directed by Chris Columbus and written by Steve Kloves, based on the 1997 novel by J. K. Rowling. It is the first instalment in the Harry Potter film series, and stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, with Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley, and Emma Watson as Hermione Granger. The film follows Harry's first year at Hogwarts as he discovers that he is a famous wizard and begins his formal wizarding education.
Warner Bros. Pictures bought the film rights to the book in 1999 for a reported £1 million ($1.65 million). Production began in the United Kingdom in 2000, with Columbus being chosen to helm the film from a short list of directors that included Steven Spielberg and Rob Reiner. Rowling insisted that the entire cast be British and Irish, with the three leads chosen in August 2000 following open casting calls. Filming took place at Leavesden Film Studios and historic buildings around the United Kingdom from September 2000 to March 2001.
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone premiered at Odeon Leicester Square in London on 4 November 2001 and was released on 16 November in the United Kingdom and the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures. It became a critical and commercial success, grossing $974 million at the box office during its initial run and over $1 billion with subsequent re-releases, against a $125 million budget. It became the highest-grossing film of 2001 and the second-highest-grossing film at the time. The film was nominated for several awards, including Academy Awards for Best Original Score, Best Art Direction and Best Costume Design. It was followed by seven sequels, beginning with Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets in 2002 and ending with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 in 2011.

Plot
Orphaned as a baby, Harry Potter is entrusted to his only living relatives, the Dursley family that is not related to the wizarding world, by Professor Albus Dumbledore, Professor Minerva McGonagall, and key keeper Rubeus Hagrid from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Due to their hatred of the wizarding world, the Dursleys keep Harry unaware of magic until his eleventh birthday approaches, when their home is flooded with letters addressed to Harry, informing him he has been accepted to study magic at Hogwarts. As the Dursleys intercept the letters, Hagrid is sent to fetch Harry. Harry subsequently purchases school supplies with Hagrid at Diagon Alley, where he learns he is celebrated for surviving the dark wizard Lord Voldemort, who seemingly perished after murdering Harry's parents for working against him and left him with only a lightning bolt-shaped scar.
Harry journeys to Hogwarts aboard the Hogwarts Express, where he meets Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. Upon arrival, the first-year students are sorted into four houses: Harry, Ron, and Hermione join Gryffindor, while the haughty Draco Malfoy goes to Slytherin, known for producing dark wizards. As they begin learning about magic and exploring Hogwarts, the three accidentally wander onto a forbidden corridor on the third floor, guarded by a giant three-headed dog named Fluffy; they subsequently question what it could be guarding. They also question how one would acquire a three-headed dog.
While Harry and Ron become friends, Hermione's studious ways ostracise her from the other students. On Halloween, Ron insults her and she retreats to the girls' toilets at the same time a mountain troll is found loose in the school. Harry and Ron rescue her from the troll and, when the teachers find them, Hermione takes the blame by saying she went looking for the troll, affirming the three's friendship; at the same time, Harry notices that the potions professor, Severus Snape, has sustained an injury. At his first flying lesson, Harry displays such impressive flying skills that McGonagall makes him Seeker for the Gryffindor Quidditch team; during his first match, Ron and Hermione act when they see Snape appearing to jinx Harry's broomstick. Snape's actions lead Harry to suspect him of trying to get into the third-floor corridor, which Hagrid dismisses, unintentionally revealing Fluffy is guarding something known only to Dumbledore and Nicholas Flamel.
Harry and Ron spend Christmas together at Hogwarts, where Harry receives a Cloak of Invisibility and discovers the Mirror of Erised, which displays one's deepest desire. When Hermione returns, she informs the boys that Nicholas Flamel is the creator of the Philosopher's Stone, which can grant users immortality, and determines that this is what is being kept on the third floor. When Harry later encounters someone in the forest surrounding the school feeding on a unicorn, which the centaur Firenze informs him can keep a person alive, Harry deduces that it was Voldemort and that Snape wants to use the Philosopher's Stone to revive him.
When Dumbledore is summoned to London, the three suspect Snape will attempt to steal the stone and decide to stop him. They believed that he would use the stone to make sure that Voldemort would live forever as long as he had the stone. Sneaking onto the third floor, they get past Fluffy and face further defences of a strangling plant, flying keys, and a giant, enchanted chessboard, which leaves Ron incapacitated. Hermione tends to him, leaving Harry alone to confront the intruder, which turns out to be timid Professor Quirrell, whom Snape had been investigating all year while protecting Harry. Harry is granted the Stone by the final defence, the Mirror of Erised, by virtue of not desiring it. Quirrell reveals Voldemort's weakened form on the back of his head, and they attempt to persuade Harry to hand it over. When Harry refuses, Voldemort orders Quirrell to kill him, but Harry's touch incinerates Quirrell's body, from which Voldemort's soul escapes.
Harry wakes up in the hospital wing, where Dumbledore explains that the Stone has been destroyed, and that Harry has twice overcome Voldemort owing to his mother's sacrifice, which repels harmful magic through him. As the school year ends, Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville Longbottom earn house points for their heroism, enabling Gryffindor to win the House Cup despite Slytherin's lead. As the summer nears, Harry is happy to have found a real home at Hogwarts.

Cast

Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter: An 11-year-old orphan living with his unwelcoming aunt, uncle, and cousin, who learns of his own fame as a wizard known to have survived his parents' murder at the hands of the dark wizard Lord Voldemort as an infant when he is accepted to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Columbus had wanted Radcliffe for the role since he saw him in the BBC's production of David Copperfield before the open casting sessions had taken place but had been told by casting director Susan Figgis that Radcliffe's protective parents would not allow their son to take part in fear of him not going to have a normal childhood. Columbus explained that his persistence in giving Radcliffe the role was responsible for Figgis' resignation. Radcliffe was asked to audition in 2000 when Heyman and Kloves met him and his parents at a production of Stones in His Pockets in London. Heyman and Columbus successfully managed to convince Radcliffe's parents that their son would be protected from media intrusion. They agreed to let him play Harry. Rowling approved of Radcliffe's casting, stating that "having seen [his] screen test I don't think Chris Columbus could have found a better Harry." Radcliffe was reportedly paid £1 million for the film, although he felt the fee was "not that important" to him. The Saunders triplets appear as Harry as a baby.
Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley: Harry's best friend at Hogwarts and a younger member of the Weasley wizarding family. A fan of the series, Grint decided he would be perfect for the part "because [he has] ginger hair". Having seen a Newsround report about the open casting he sent in a video of himself rapping about how he wished to receive the part. His attempt was successful as the casting team asked for a meeting with him.
Emma Watson as Hermione Granger: Harry's other best friend and the trio's brains. Watson's Oxford theatre teacher passed her name on to the casting agents and she had to do over five interviews before she got the part. Watson took her audition seriously, but "never really thought [she] had any chance of getting the role." The producers were impressed by Watson's self-confidence and she outperformed the thousands of other girls who had applied.
John Cleese as Nearly Headless Nick: The ghost of Gryffindor House.
Robbie Coltrane as Rubeus Hagrid: A half-giant and Hogwarts' gamekeeper. Coltrane was one of the two actors Rowling wanted most, along with Smith as McGonagall. Coltrane, who was already a fan of the books, prepared for the role by discussing Hagrid's past and future with Rowling.
Warwick Davis as Filius Flitwick: The Charms Master and head of Ravenclaw House. Davis also plays two other roles in the film: the Goblin Head Teller at Gringotts, and dubs the voice of Griphook, who is embodied by Verne Troyer.
Richard Griffiths as Vernon Dursley: Harry's Muggle uncle.
Richard Harris as Albus Dumbledore: Hogwarts' Headmaster and one of the most famous and powerful wizards of all time. Harris initially rejected the role, only to reverse his decision after his granddaughter stated she would never speak to him again if he did not take it.
John Hurt as Mr. Ollivander: a highly regarded wandmaker and the owner of Ollivanders.
Alan Rickman as Severus Snape: The Potions Master and head of Slytherin House.
Fiona Shaw as Petunia Dursley: Harry's Muggle aunt.
Maggie Smith as Minerva McGonagall: The Deputy Headmistress, head of Gryffindor and transfiguration teacher at Hogwarts. Smith was one of the two actors Rowling wanted most, along with Coltrane as Hagrid.
Julie Walters as Molly Weasley: Mother of Ron Weasley.
Ian Hart as Quirinus Quirrell: The stuttering Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts. Hart also voiced Lord Voldemort, while Richard Bremmer provided his physical appearance and portrayed him as a hooded figure during a flashback.
Bonnie Wright as Ginny Weasley
Additionally, Zoë Wanamaker appears as Madame Hooch, Hogwarts' flying instructor and Quidditch referee; Tom Felton portrays Draco Malfoy, a student in Slytherin and Harry's rival. Harry Melling plays Dudley Dursley, Harry's Muggle cousin; and David Bradley appears as Argus Filch, Hogwarts' caretaker. Matthew Lewis, Devon Murray and Alfred Enoch portray Neville Longbottom, Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas respectively, three first year students in Gryffindor; James and Oliver Phelps play twins Fred and George Weasley, Ron's brothers, while Chris Rankin appears as his other brother Percy, a Gryffindor prefect,. Sean Biggerstaff portrays Oliver Wood, the Captain and Keeper of the Gryffindor Quidditch team; Jamie Waylett and Josh Herdman play Crabbe and Goyle, Malfoy's minions; and Leslie Phillips voices the Sorting Hat. Derek Deadman plays Tom, innkeeper of The Leaky Cauldron; and Elizabeth Spriggs appears as the Fat Lady, a painting at Hogwarts. Jean Southern plays dimpled woman on train.

Production

Development
In 1997, producer David Heyman searched for a children's book that could be adapted into a well-received film. He had planned to produce Diana Wynne Jones' novel The Ogre Downstairs, but his plans fell through. His assistant at Heyday Films then suggested Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, which she believed was "a cool idea." Although originally not liking the title, Heyman read the novel and "fell in love" with it. Following the publication of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets in 1998, Heyman pitched the novels to Warner Bros. Pictures and, in 1999, author J. K. Rowling sold the company the rights to the first four Harry Potter books for a reported £1 million. A demand Rowling made was for Heyman to keep the cast strictly British and Irish; the latter's case has Richard Harris as Albus Dumbledore and Fiona Shaw as Petunia Dursley, and not to cast foreign actors unless absolutely necessary, like casting of French and Eastern European actors in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005) where characters from the book are specified as such. Rowling was hesitant to sell the rights because she "didn't want to give them control over the rest of the story" by selling the rights to the characters, which would have enabled Warner Bros. to make non-author-written sequels.
Although filmmaker Steven Spielberg initially negotiated to direct the film and developed a second draft of the script with screenwriter Steven Kloves, he eventually left the project. Spielberg reportedly wanted the adaptation to be an animated film produced by DreamWorks Animation that incorporated elements from subsequent books as well, with American actor Haley Joel Osment to provide Harry Potter's voice. While developing the film, Spielberg suggested Harris, Maggie Smith and Robbie Coltrane to be cast. He later contended that, in his opinion, it was like "shooting ducks in a barrel. It's just a slam dunk. It's just like withdrawing a billion dollars and putting it into your personal bank accounts. There's no challenge". Rowling maintains that she had no role in choosing directors for the films and that "[a]nyone who thinks I could (or would) have 'veto-ed'  [sic] him [Spielberg] needs their Quick-Quotes Quill serviced". Heyman recalled that Spielberg decided to direct A.I. Artificial Intelligence (2001) instead. In a 2023 interview, Spielberg stated that he turned down the project so he could spend time with his family.

After Spielberg left, talks began with other directors, including Chris Columbus, Jonathan Demme, Baz Luhrmann, David Fincher, Terry Gilliam, Mike Newell (who would later direct the Goblet of Fire), Alan Parker, Wolfgang Petersen, Rob Reiner, Ivan Reitman, Tim Robbins, Brad Silberling, Ron Howard, M. Night Shyamalan and Peter Weir. Shyamalan declined as he already working on Signs (2002). Petersen and Reiner both pulled out of the running in March 2000, and the choice was narrowed down to Silberling, Columbus, Parker and Gilliam.
Rowling's first choice director was Gilliam, but Warner Bros. chose Columbus, citing his work on other family films such as Home Alone (1990) and Mrs. Doubtfire (1993) as influences for their decision. Columbus had become a fan of the book series after his daughter persuaded him to read the first three books, leading him to call his agent to arrange a meeting at Warner Bros. to direct the film. When his agent told him that at least 25 other directors were eager to helm the project, Columbus requested his agent to secure his meeting to be the last one so he could give a "lasting impression" and be the studio's "freshest person in their memory".
During two weeks of waiting, Columbus wrote a 130-page director's version of the screenplay to explain his vision for the film's tone. The day of his meeting with Warner Bros. executives including Alan F. Horn, Columbus delivered an "impassioned 45-minute talk" and showed them his annotated script. Weeks later, the studio notified Columbus that he had got the job and sent him to Scotland to meet with Rowling and Heyman. Columbus pitched his vision of the film for two hours, stating that he wanted the Muggle scenes "to be bleak and dreary" but those set in the wizarding world "to be steeped in color, mood, and detail." He took inspiration from David Lean's adaptations of Great Expectations (1946) and Oliver Twist (1948), wishing to use "that sort of darkness, that sort of edge, that quality to the cinematography," while being further inspired by the colour designs from Oliver! (1968) and The Godfather (1972). Columbus turned down the chance to direct Spider-Man (2002) in order to direct the film.
Kloves described adapting the book as "tough", as it did not "lend itself to adaptation as well as the next two books". Kloves often received synopses of books proposed as film adaptations from Warner Bros., which he "almost never read", but Harry Potter jumped out at him. He went out and bought the book, and became an instant fan of the series. When speaking to Warner Bros., he stated that the film had to be British, and had to be true to the characters. Kloves was nervous when he first met Rowling as he did not want her to think he was going to "[destroy] her baby". Rowling admitted that she "was really ready to hate this Steve Kloves," but recalled her initial meeting with him: "The first time I met him, he said to me, 'You know who my favourite character is?' And I thought, You're gonna say Ron. I know you're gonna say Ron. But he said 'Hermione.' And I just kind of melted". Rowling received a large amount of creative control, an arrangement that Columbus did not mind.
Warner Bros. had initially planned to release the film over 4 July 2001 weekend, making for such a short production window that several proposed directors pulled themselves out of the running. Due to time constraints, the date was put back to 16 November 2001.

Casting
Susie Figgis was appointed as casting director, working with both Columbus and Rowling in auditioning the lead roles of Harry, Ron and Hermione. Columbus' experience while filming Home Alone influenced the casting, and later became extra cautious after learning about Macaulay Culkin's family abuse. Open casting calls were held for the main three roles, with only British children being considered. The principal auditions took place in three parts, with those auditioning having to read a page from the novel, then to improvise a scene of the students' arrival at Hogwarts, and finally to read several pages from the script in front of Columbus. Scenes from Columbus' script for Young Sherlock Holmes (1985) were also used in auditions. On 11 July 2000, Figgis left the production, complaining that Columbus did not consider any of the thousands of children they had auditioned "worthy". She ended up quitting over disagreements with Columbus over who should play the titular character, as Columbus wanted to cast Americans for Harry and the other roles, with rumors that Columbus was thinking on casting Joel Osment or Jake Lloyd from Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999) to play Harry.
By August 2000, Alan Rickman and Richard Harris were in final talks to play Severus Snape and Albus Dumbledore, respectively, and were confirmed later that month. Tim Roth was the original choice for Snape, but he turned it down for Planet of the Apes (2001). Sean Connery and Christopher Lee were offered the role of Dumbledore, but both declined. Lee turned it down for The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001). Patrick McGoohan was also offered the role, which he declined citing health reasons.
On 14 August 2000, Maggie Smith and Robbie Coltrane were cast as Minerva McGonagall and Rubeus Hagrid. According to Figgis, Robin Williams was interested in playing the role of Hagrid, but was turned down for the role because of the "strictly British and Irish actors only" rule which Columbus was determined to maintain.
On 21 August 2000, Daniel Radcliffe and newcomers Rupert Grint and Emma Watson were selected to play Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, respectively. According to Columbus, Harry was the hardest role to cast. Hundreds of young stars auditioned for Harry, including Liam Aiken, Jamie Campbell Bower (who was later cast as a young Gellert Grindelwald in Deathly Hallows Part 1), Tom Felton (who also auditioned for Ron, and was later cast as Draco Malfoy), Nicholas Hoult, William Moseley, and Jack Whitehall. Aiken was reported as being a frontrunner for the role, having worked with Columbus on the film Stepmom (1998). However, Rowling was firm on her British actors only rule, and even called Columbus to confirm that Aiken would not be cast. Gabriel Thomson was also initially reported as having been given the role, though this would be proven untrue upon the casting of Radcliffe.
Hatty Jones, who starred in the title role in Madeline (1998), was considered for the role of Hermione Granger and had auditioned alongside Watson; she was later deemed outgrown. Katy B also auditioned for Hermione, with Thomas Brodie-Sangster auditioning for the role of Ron. Freddie Boath had been due to audition for a role in the film, but opted instead to star in The Mummy Returns (2001).
In November 2000, Julie Walters and John Cleese joined the cast as Molly Weasley and Nearly-Headless Nick, respectively. Rosie O'Donnell met with Columbus to express her interest in playing the role of Molly, but was, like Williams and Aiken, turned away over the British actors only rule. David Thewlis auditioned for Quirinus Quirrell; he would later be cast as Remus Lupin in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004). Rowling herself was considered for Lily Evans; Harry's mother, but she turned down the role so Geraldine Somerville was cast.

Filming

Two British film industry officials requested that the film be shot in the United Kingdom, offering their assistance in securing filming locations, the use of Leavesden Film Studios, as well as changing the UK's child labour laws (adding a small number of working hours per week and making the timing of on-set classes more flexible). Warner Bros. accepted their proposal.
Principal photography began on 29 September 2000 at Leavesden Film Studios. Filming at the North Yorkshire's Goathland railway station took place on 2 October 2000. Canterbury Cathedral and Scotland's Inverailort Castle were both touted as possible locations for Hogwarts; Canterbury rejected Warner Bros. proposal due to concerns about the film's "pagan" theme. Alnwick Castle and Gloucester Cathedral were eventually selected as the principal locations for Hogwarts, with some scenes also being filmed at Harrow School. Other Hogwarts scenes were filmed in Durham Cathedral over a two-week period; these included shots of the corridors and some classroom scenes. Oxford University's Divinity School served as the Hogwarts Hospital Wing, and Duke Humfrey's Library, part of the Bodleian, was used as the Hogwarts Library.

Filming for Privet Drive took place on Picket Post Close in Bracknell, Berkshire. Filming in the street took two days instead of the planned single day, so payments to the street's residents were correspondingly increased. For all the subsequent film's scenes set in Privet Drive, filming took place on a constructed set in Leavesden Film Studios, which proved to be cheaper than filming on location. London's Australia House was selected as the location for Gringotts Wizarding Bank, while Christ Church, Oxford, was the location for the Hogwarts trophy room. London Zoo's Reptile House was used as the location for the scene in which Harry accidentally sets a snake on Dudley, with King's Cross Station also being used as the book specifies. Filming concluded on 23 March 2001, with final work being done in July 2001.
Because the American title was different, all scenes that mention the philosopher's stone by name had to be shot twice, once with the actors saying "philosopher's" and once with "sorcerer's". The children filmed for four hours and then did three hours of schoolwork. They developed a liking for fake facial injuries from the makeup staff. Radcliffe was initially meant to wear green contact lenses as his eyes are blue, and not green like Harry's, but the lenses gave Radcliffe extreme irritation. Upon consultation with Rowling, it was agreed that Harry could have blue eyes. Radcliffe said that the first time he put on the glasses it set off his allergies.
Columbus said the film had a lot of cuts and was filmed with multiple cameras because he had trouble getting the young cast to "stop smiling" into the camera.

The steam engine used in the film as the Hogwarts Express up until Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, was GWR 4900 Class 5972 Olton Hall, but it was originally not the first locomotive to be selected as the Hogwarts Express. To promote the books, the Southern Railway locomotive 34027 Taw Valley was repainted and renamed temporarily, but was rejected by director Chris Columbus as looking 'too modern' for the film. The LMS Class 8F No. 48151 had also been considered for the film.

Design and special effects
Judianna Makovsky served as the costume designer. She re-designed the Quidditch robes, having initially planned to use those shown on the cover of the American book, but deemed them "a mess". Instead, she dressed the Quidditch players in "preppie sweaters, 19th-century fencing breeches and arm guards". Production designer Stuart Craig built the sets at Leavesden Studios, including Hogwarts Great Hall, basing it on many English cathedrals. Although originally asked to use an existing old street to film the Diagon Alley scenes, Craig decided to build his own set, comprising Tudor, Georgian and Queen Anne architecture.
Columbus originally planned to use both animatronics and CGI animation to create the magical creatures, including Fluffy. Nick Dudman, who worked on Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace, was given the task of creating the needed prosthetics, with Jim Henson's Creature Shop providing creature effects. John Coppinger stated that the magical creatures that needed to be created had to be designed multiple times. The film features nearly 600 special effects shots, involving numerous companies. Industrial Light & Magic created Lord Voldemort's face on the back of Quirrell, Rhythm & Hues animated Norbert (Hagrid's baby dragon); and Sony Pictures Imageworks produced the Quidditch scenes, as well as the effects for the mountain troll, with actor Michael Q. Schmidt serving as reference for the troll's body.

Music

James Horner was initially sought to compose the score, but declined the opportunity. Having previously collaborated with Columbus on the Home Alone films and Stepmom, John Williams was selected to compose the score in August 2000. Williams composed the score at his homes in Los Angeles and Tanglewood before recording it in London in September 2001. One of the main themes is entitled "Hedwig's Theme"; Williams retained it for his finished score as "everyone seemed to like it," and it became a recurring theme throughout the series.

Differences from the book
Columbus repeatedly checked with Rowling to make sure he was getting minor details correct. Kloves described the film as being "really faithful" to the book. He added dialogue, of which Rowling approved. One of the lines originally included had to be removed after Rowling told him that it would directly contradict an event in the then-unreleased fifth Harry Potter novel Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
Several minor characters were removed from the film version, most prominently Peeves the poltergeist. Rik Mayall was cast, but his scenes were cut and never released. The book's first chapter, told from the viewpoint of Vernon and Petunia Dursley, is absent from the film. Harry and Draco's first encounter in Madam Malkin's robe shop and the midnight duel are not in the film. In the film, the responsibility of taking Norbert away is given to Dumbledore, while in the book, Harry and Hermione have to bring him by hand to Charlie Weasley's friends. This necessitated a change in the detention plotline: in the book, Filch catches Harry and Hermione leaving the Astronomy Tower and puts them in detention with Neville and Malfoy, while in the film, all three protagonists receive detention after Malfoy finds them in Hagrid's hut after hours. According to Kloves, this was "the one part of the book that [Rowling] felt easily could be changed". The Quidditch pitch is altered from a traditional stadium to an open field circled by spectator towers.
The book's timeline is not enforced in the film. In the book, Harry's eleventh birthday is in 1991. On the film set for 4 Privet Drive, Dudley's certificates from primary school bear the year 2001.

Distribution

Marketing
The first teaser poster of the film was released on 1 December 2000. The first teaser trailer was released via satellite on 2 March 2001 and debuted in cinemas with the release of See Spot Run. A video game based on the film was released on 15 November 2001 by Electronic Arts for several consoles. A port for the game, for the GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox, was released in 2003. Mattel won the rights to produce toys based on the film, to be sold exclusively through Warner Bros. stores. Hasbro also produced products, including confectionery products based on those from the series. Warner Bros. signed a deal worth US$150 million with Coca-Cola to promote the film, although some pegged the deal at $40 million-$50 million worldwide for the movie. Lego produced a series of sets based on buildings and scenes from the film, as well as a Lego Creator video game.

Theatrical release
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone had its world premiere at the Odeon Leicester Square in London on 4 November 2001, with the cinema arranged to resemble Hogwarts School.
The film had previews in the United Kingdom on 1,137 screens at 491 theatres on 10 and 11 November 2001. It officially opened on 16 November 2001 on 1,168 screens at 507 theatres in the United Kingdom and Ireland; in 3,672 theatres in the United States and Canada. It was the widest release at the time in the United Kingdom and the United States.

Home media
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was first released on VHS and DVD on 11 May 2002 in the United Kingdom and 28 May 2002 in the United States.
Between May and June 2002, the film sold 10 million copies, almost 60% of which were DVD sales. It would go on to make $19.1 million in rentals, surpassing The Fast and the Furious for having the largest DVD rentals. This record was surpassed by The Bourne Identity in January 2003.
In December 2009, a 4-disc "Ultimate Edition" was released, with seven minutes of deleted scenes added back in, the feature-length special Creating the World of Harry Potter Part 1: The Magic Begins, and a 48-page hardcover booklet. The extended version has a running time of about 159 minutes, which had previously been shown during certain television airings. The film was re-released on DVD as part of the 8-disc Harry Potter: The Complete 8-Film Collection in November 2011, and on Blu-ray as part of the 31-disc Hogwarts Collection in April 2014. It was released on UHD Blu-ray as part of the 16-disc Harry Potter: 8-Film Collection in November 2017.

Reception

Box office
In the United Kingdom and Ireland, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone grossed a record single day gross of £3.6 million during the first day of previews, beating Toy Story 2's record. It grossed a record £3.1 million for a Sunday, bringing its total to £6.7 million from the previews. It broke the record for the highest-opening weekend ever, both including and excluding previews, making £16.3 million with and £9.6 million without previews ($13.8 million), setting a further record single day gross on the Saturday with £3.99 million. It set another Sunday record with a gross of £3.6 million. It had a record second weekend of £8.4 million. It remained at number one in the UK for five weeks. The film went on to make £66.1 million in the UK alone, making it the country's second-highest-grossing film of all-time (after Titanic), until it was surpassed by Mamma Mia!.
In the United States and Canada, it made $32.3 million on its opening day, breaking the single-day record previously held by Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999). On the second day of release, the film's gross increased to $33.5 million, breaking the record for biggest single day again. It made $90.3 million during its first weekend, breaking the record for highest-opening weekend of all time that was previously held by The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997). It held the record until the following May when Spider-Man (2002) made $114.8 million in its opening weekend. Plus, the film broke Batman Forever's record for having the largest opening weekend for a Warner Bros. Pictures film. It would hold this record for two years until it was surpassed by The Matrix Reloaded (2003). Additionally, it shattered other opening records, surpassing Monsters, Inc. for having the biggest November opening weekend, Planet of the Apes for having the largest non-holiday opening weekend, the highest Friday gross and the biggest opening weekend of the year, The Mummy Returns for scoring the highest Saturday gross, Home Alone 2: Lost in New York (1992) for having the highest opening weekend for a Chris Columbus film and Mission: Impossible 2 (2000) for having the largest number of screenings, playing at 3,672 theaters. In just five days, it became the fastest film to approach the $100 million mark. The film grossed $2.3 million in its first two days in Taiwan, giving it a worldwide opening weekend total of $107 million. The film held onto the number 1 spot at the US box office for three consecutive weekends before getting overtaken by Ocean's Eleven. The film also had the highest-grossing 5-day (Wednesday-Sunday) Thanksgiving weekend record of $82.4 million, holding the title for twelve years until both The Hunger Games: Catching Fire (2013) and Frozen (2013) surpassed it with $110.1 million and $94 million respectively. By Christmas, it went on to become the highest-grossing film of the year, dethroning Shrek.
Similar results were achieved across the world. A week after opening in the United States, the film added 15 additional markets and set an opening week record in Germany, grossing $18.7 million. It also set opening records in Austria, Brazil, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and German-speaking Switzerland. In the following weekend, after expanding to 31 countries, the film set a record overseas weekend gross of $60.9 million, including record openings in Australia, Greece, Israel, Japan ($12.5 million), New Zealand and Spain. It set another overseas weekend record with $62.3 million from 37 countries the following weekend, including record openings in France, Italy and French-speaking Switzerland. The international opening weekend record would be held for a year until it was given to Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones (2002). During its theatrical run, the film earned $974 million at the worldwide box office, $317 million of that in the US and $657 million elsewhere, which made it the second-highest-grossing film in history at the time, as well as the year's highest-grossing film. In addition, it went on to become the highest-grossing Warner Bros. film of all time, surpassing Batman (1989) domestically and Twister (1996) worldwide. It is the second-highest-grossing Harry Potter film after Deathly Hallows – Part 2. Box Office Mojo estimates that the film sold over 55.9 million tickets in the US and Canada.
In August 2020, The Philosopher's Stone was re-released in several countries, including a 4K 3D restoration in China, where it earned $26.4 million, for a global $1.026 billion, making it the second film in the series to surpass the billion-dollar mark, after Deathly Hallows – Part 2.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 80% based on 202 reviews, with an average rating of 7.1/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone adapts its source material faithfully while condensing the novel's overstuffed narrative into an involving – and often downright exciting – big-screen magical caper." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 65 out of 100, based on 36 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews. Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A" on an A+ to F scale.
Roger Ebert called Philosopher's Stone "a classic," giving the film four out of four stars, and particularly praising the Quidditch scenes' visual effects. Praise was echoed by both The Telegraph and Empire reviewers, with Alan Morrison of the latter naming it the film's "stand-out sequence". Brian Linder of IGN also gave the film a positive review, but concluded that it "isn't perfect, but for me it's a nice supplement to a book series that I love". Although criticising the final half-hour, Jeanne Aufmuth of Palo Alto Online stated that the film would "enchant even the most cynical of moviegoers." USA Today reviewer Claudia Puig gave the film three out of four stars, especially praising the set design and Robbie Coltrane's portrayal of Hagrid, but criticised John Williams' music, stating the "overly insistent score lacks subtlety and bludgeons us with crescendos", and concluded that "ultimately many of the book's readers may wish for a more magical incarnation."
The sets, design, cinematography, effects and principal cast were all given praise from Kirk Honeycutt of The Hollywood Reporter, although he deemed John Williams' score "a great clanging, banging music box that simply will not shut up." Todd McCarthy of Variety compared the film positively with Gone with the Wind and put "The script is faithful, the actors are just right, the sets, costumes, makeup and effects match and sometimes exceed anything one could imagine." Jonathan Foreman of the New York Post recalled that the film was "remarkably faithful," to its literary counterpart as well as a "consistently entertaining if overlong adaptation."
Richard Corliss, of Time magazine, considered the film a "by the numbers adaptation," criticising the pace and the "charisma-free" lead actors. CNN's Paul Tatara found that Columbus and Kloves "are so careful to avoid offending anyone by excising a passage from the book, the so-called narrative is more like a jamboree inside Rowling's head." Ed Gonzalez of Slant Magazine wished that the film had been directed by Tim Burton, finding the cinematography "bland and muggy," and the majority of the film a "solidly dull celebration of dribbling goo." Elvis Mitchell of The New York Times was highly negative about the film, comparing it to "a theme park that's a few years past its prime; the rides clatter and groan with metal fatigue every time they take a curve." He also said it suffered from "a lack of imagination" and wooden characters, adding, "The Sorting Hat ... has more personality than anything else in the movie."

Accolades
Philosopher's Stone received three Academy Award nominations: Best Art Direction, Best Costume Design, and Best Original Score for John Williams. The film was also nominated for seven BAFTA Awards: Best British Film, Best Supporting Actor for Robbie Coltrane, Best Costume Design, Best Production Design, Best Makeup and Hair, Best Sound, and Best Visual Effects. It won a Saturn Award for Best Costume, and was nominated for eight more awards. It won other awards from the Casting Society of America and the Costume Designers Guild. It was nominated for the AFI Film Award for its special effects, and the Art Directors Guild Award for its production design. It received the Broadcast Film Critics Award for Best Family Film, and was nominated for Best Child Performance (for Daniel Radcliffe) and Best Composer. In 2005, the American Film Institute nominated the film for AFI's 100 Years of Film Scores.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is a fantasy novel by British author J. K. Rowling. The third novel in the Harry Potter series, it follows the young wizard Harry Potter during his third year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. With his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, Harry investigates Sirius Black, an escaped prisoner who no one doubts to be one of Lord Voldemort's allies.
The book was published in the United Kingdom on 8 July 1999 by Bloomsbury and in the United States on 8 September 1999 by Scholastic, Inc. The book, which took Rowling one year to write, sold 64,000 copies in just three days after its release in the United Kingdom, and since has sold over three million in the country. The book won the 1999 Whitbread Children's Book Award, the Bram Stoker Award, and the 2000 Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel and was short-listed for other awards, including the Hugo.
The film adaptation of the novel was released in 2004, grossing more than $810 million and earning critical acclaim. Video games based on the novel have also been released.

Plot
During the summer, 13-year-old Harry sees Muggle news about an escaped murderer named Sirius Black. Some time after this, Harry accidentally performs magic at the home of his Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon. He then uses The Knight Bus to flee his aunt and uncle and travel to London. While on the Knight Bus, he learns that Sirius Black is a wizard who broke out of Azkaban. When arriving in London, Harry is greeted by Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic, who tells him to stay the rest of the summer in the Wizarding Diagon Alley.
With Black at large, Dementors have been stationed at Hogwarts as a security measure. Harry repeatedly faints in the presence of the Dementors, but eventually is taught by Professor Lupin how to repel them using the Patronus Charm.
During a Care of Magical Creatures lesson with Hagrid, Draco Malfoy is injured after provoking a hippogriff named Buckbeak. Draco's father, Lucius Malfoy, gets Hagrid put on trial for owning a dangerous creature. When Harry is unable to participate in weekend trips to Hogsmeade Village, Fred and George give him a magical map that shows him how to get there using a secret passage. At the Three Broomsticks pub, Harry overhears that Black is his godfather, that he betrayed Harry's parents to Voldemort, and that he now seeks to kill Harry as well.
When Ron's pet rat Scabbers disappears, he blames Hermione and her cat Crookshanks. Ron and Hermione stop talking to each other, although Hermione is distraught when Ron is attacked by Black inside the Gryffindor dormitory. After the attack, Black cannot be found. When Harry, Ron and Hermione learn that Buckbeak will be executed, they console Hagrid, and Ron and Hermione resume their friendship. Hermione and Ron also find Scabbers hiding in Hagrid's hut. As the friends make their way back to the castle, Ron is attacked by a large black dog, which drags him through the passageway leading to Hogsmeade. Harry and Hermione give chase, and find themselves in the Shrieking Shack, where the dog is revealed to be Black in his Animagus form. Lupin arrives, and Black states that he intends to kill Scabbers, not Harry. He explains that Scabbers is Peter Pettigrew, who betrayed Harry's parents to Voldemort and framed Black for mass murder. Black and Lupin compel Pettigrew to change into his human form, then haul him back to Hogwarts.
On the way to the castle, the full moon causes Lupin to transform into a werewolf. Pettigrew escapes and is pursued by Black, Harry and Hermione, who encounter Dementors and lose consciousness. They awaken in the castle, where Black is now being held captive. Harry and Hermione proclaim his innocence to Dumbledore, who suggests using Hermione's Time Turner. Harry and Hermione travel back in time and save both Black and Buckbeak, who fly away together. Snape blames Lupin for Black's disappearance and makes his werewolf identity public, which forces Lupin to resign. On the train back to London, Harry receives a letter from Black, expressing his gratitude to Harry for saving his life.

Publication and reception

Pre-release history
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the third book in the Harry Potter series. The first, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was published by Bloomsbury Publishing on 26 June 1997 and the second, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, was published on 2 July 1998. J. K. Rowling started to write the Prisoner of Azkaban the day after she finished The Chamber of Secrets. Rowling said in 2004 that Prisoner of Azkaban was "the best writing experience I ever had...I was in a very comfortable place writing (number) three. Immediate financial worries were over, and press attention wasn't yet by any means excessive".

Critical reception
Gregory Maguire wrote a review in The New York Times for Prisoner of Azkaban: in it he said, "So far, in terms of plot, the books do nothing new, but they do it brilliantly...so far, so good." In a newspaper review in The New York Times, it was said that "'The Prisoner of Azkaban' may be the best 'Harry Potter' book yet". A reviewer for KidsReads said, "This crisply-paced fantasy will leave you hungry for the four additional Harry books that J.K. Rowling is working on. Harry's third year is a charm. Don't miss it." Kirkus Reviews did not give a starred review but said, "a properly pulse-pounding climax...The main characters and the continuing story both come along so smartly...that the book seems shorter than its page count: have readers clear their calendars if they are fans, or get out of the way if they are not." Martha V. Parravano also gave a positive review for The Horn Book Magazine, calling it "quite a good book." In addition, a Publishers Weekly review said, "Rowling's wit never flags, whether constructing the workings of the wizard world...or tossing off quick jokes...The Potter spell is holding strong".
However, Anthony Holden, who was one of the judges against Prisoner of Azkaban for the Whitbread Award, was negative about the book, saying that the characters are "all black-and-white", and the "story-lines are predictable, the suspense minimal, the sentimentality cloying every page".
In 2012 it was ranked number 12 on a list of the top 100 children's novels published by School Library Journal.

Awards
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban won several awards, including the 1999 Booklist Editors' Choice Award, the 1999 Bram Stoker Award for Best Work for Young Readers, the 1999 FCBG Children's Book Award, the 1999 Whitbread Book of the Year for children's books, and the 2000 Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel. It was also nominated for the 2000 Hugo Award for Best Novel, the first in the series nominated, but lost to A Deepness in the Sky. Prisoner of Azkaban additionally won the 2004 Indian Paintbrush Book Award and the 2004 Colorado Blue Spruce Young Adult Book Award. Additionally, it was named an American Library Association Notable Children's Book in 2000 as well as one of their Best Books for Young Adults. As with the previous two books in the series, Prisoner of Azkaban won the Nestlé Smarties Book Prize Gold Medal for children aged 9–11 and made the top of the New York Times Best Seller list. In both cases, it was the last in the series to do so. However, in the latter case, a Children's Best Sellers list was created just before the release of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire in July 2000 in order to free up more room on the original list. In 2003, the novel was listed at number 24 on the BBC's survey The Big Read.

Sales
Prisoner of Azkaban sold more than 64,000 copies in the UK within three days of publication, which made it the fastest selling British book of the time. The sales total by 2012 is said by The Guardian to be 3,377,906.

Editions

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was issued, prior to publication, in two distinct UK proof editions, and one US "Advance Reader's Edition". The first UK proof, in purple wrappers, differs from the second in a number of respects, and is thought to have been printed in a small edition of 50 copies. The second UK proof is in green wrappers and was printed in a somewhat larger run. The US Advance Reader's Edition is the last of its kind in the Harry Potter series, as no Advance Reader's Editions are known for books 4 through 7. The rear wrapper of the Advance Reader's Edition reveals the circumstances of the US publication of the book:

Due to the unprecedented demand for this book, we have moved the publication date up a full year. (We understand, we couldn't wait to read it either!). Accordingly, we have rushed to bring this Advance Reader's Edition to you as quickly as possible.
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was released in hardcover in the UK on 8 July 1999 and in the US on 8 September. The UK edition was released at the unusually precise time of 3.45pm, so as to avoid children skipping school in order to purchase the book. The first state of the hardback edition features an error on p. 7, with an unintended carriage return in a block quote. Two further issues were released, both fixing the error. Across all three states, 5,150 were printed by Clays Ltd.
The British paperback edition was released on 1 April 2000, while the US paperback was released 1 October 2001.
Bloomsbury additionally released an adult edition with a different cover design to the original, in paperback on 10 July 2004 and in hardcover in October 2004. A hardcover special edition, featuring a green border and signature, was released on 8 July 1999. In May 2004, Bloomsbury released a Celebratory Edition, with a blue and purple border. On 1 November 2010, they released the 10th anniversary Signature edition illustrated by Clare Mellinsky and in July 2013 a new adult cover illustrated by Andrew Davidson, both these editions were designed by Webb & Webb Design Limited.
Beginning on 27 August 2013, Scholastic will release new covers for the paperback editions of Harry Potter in the United States to celebrate 15 years of the series. The covers were designed by the author and illustrator Kazu Kibuishi.
An illustrated version of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was released on 3 October 2017, and was illustrated by Jim Kay, who illustrated the previous two instalments. This includes over 115 new illustrations and will be followed by Illustrated editions of the following 4 novels in the future. Jim Kay announced on 6 October 2022 that he would not be illustrating the final two Harry Potter books and that his last work, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, would be released on 11 October 2022.

Adaptations

Film

The film version of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was released in 2004 and was directed by Alfonso Cuarón from a screenplay by Steve Kloves. The film debuted at number one at the box office and held that position for two weeks. It made a total of $796.7 million worldwide, which made it the second highest-grossing film of 2004 behind Shrek 2. However, among all eight films in the Harry Potter series, Prisoner of Azkaban had the lowest total gross. The film placed at number 471 on Empire magazine's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.

Video games

Three video games based on the book were released in 2004 by Electronic Arts.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film)

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is a 2004 fantasy film directed by Alfonso Cuarón from a screenplay by Steve Kloves. It is based on the 1999 novel Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban by J. K. Rowling. It is the sequel to Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002) and the third instalment in the Harry Potter film series. The film stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, alongside Rupert Grint and Emma Watson as Harry's best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, respectively. The film follows Harry's third year at Hogwarts and his quest to uncover the truth about his past, including the connection recently escaped Azkaban prisoner Sirius Black has to Harry and his deceased parents.
With this film, the Harry Potter series switched to a longer eighteen-month production cycle. Cuarón was selected as director from a list that included Callie Khouri and Kenneth Branagh. The cast of previous films returned for Prisoner, with the additions of Gary Oldman, David Thewlis, Timothy Spall, and Emma Thompson, among others. It was the first appearance of Michael Gambon as Professor Albus Dumbledore, due to Richard Harris's death in 2002. Principal photography began in February 2003 at Leavesden Film Studios. It was the first in the series to extensively use real-life locations, with sets built in Scotland and scenes shot in London. Filming wrapped in November 2003.
The film was released on 31 May 2004 in the United Kingdom, and on 4 June 2004 in North America by Warner Bros. Pictures. It was the first Harry Potter film to use IMAX Technology and was released in IMAX theaters. Prisoner of Azkaban grossed a total of $808 million worldwide, making it the second-highest-grossing film of 2004, behind Shrek 2. The film received widespread acclaim from critics, with particular praise for the cinematography and Cuarón's direction; it has been credited with shifting the tone of the franchise. It was nominated for two Academy Awards, Best Original Music Score and Best Visual Effects, at the 77th Academy Awards in 2004. It was followed by Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire in 2005.

Plot
During another unhappy summer with the Dursleys, Harry Potter becomes enraged when Vernon's sister Marge viciously insults his parents and provokes him to inflate her and float away. Expecting to be expelled from Hogwarts for using magic outside school, Harry runs away but is picked up by the Knight Bus and taken to The Leaky Cauldron, where Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge assures Harry that he will not face punishment. Upon reuniting with his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, Harry learns that Sirius Black, an alleged supporter of Lord Voldemort, has escaped Azkaban prison and is expected to come after Harry.
While journeying to Hogwarts, the Hogwarts Express is boarded by Dementors, ghostly prison guards searching for Black; one of them causes Harry to faint, but the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Lupin, repels it using a Patronus Charm. At Hogwarts, Headmaster Albus Dumbledore announces that Dementors will patrol the school until Black is captured. Hagrid is appointed as the Care of Magical Creatures teacher, but his first class goes awry when Draco Malfoy provokes a hippogriff named Buckbeak to attack him; as a result, Draco's father has Buckbeak sentenced to death.
Hogwarts is put on high alert when the portrait of The Fat Lady warns that Black is in the castle and attempted to break into Gryffindor Tower. The Dementors attack Harry during a Quidditch match, but he is saved by Dumbledore, although his broomstick is destroyed; Harry's sensitivity to the Dementors prompts him to ask Lupin to teach him the Patronus Charm. Harry, unable to visit Hogsmeade Village without permission from his guardians, attempts to sneak out of the castle but is caught by Fred and George Weasley, who provide him with the Marauder's Map, which shows him a secure passage to Hogsmeade. Above The Three Broomsticks pub, he overhears Professor Minerva McGonagall, pub owner Madam Rosmerta and Fudge discuss how Black is Harry's godfather, divulged the Potters' whereabouts to Voldemort, and murdered their mutual friend Peter Pettigrew; Harry vows to kill Black if they meet.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione witness the execution of Buckbeak, after which a large black dog drags Ron into a hole at the base of the Whomping Willow. Harry and Hermione follow them through an underground passage to the Shrieking Shack, where the dog is revealed to be Black, an Animagus. Lupin appears in the shack, where he is revealed to be an old friend of Black and a werewolf. Lupin and Black reveal that Ron's pet rat, Scabbers, is actually the Animagus form of Pettigrew, who is returned to human form and confesses to having betrayed Harry's parents, framed Black, and faked his own death.
The group heads back to the castle, intending to both exonerate Black, who offers to let Harry live with him instead of the Dursleys, and expose Pettigrew as the real killer, but the full moon causes Lupin to transform into a werewolf; amid the chaos, Pettigrew turns back into a rat and escapes. Black transforms into his animal form and fights off werewolf Lupin, who seriously injures Black. Harry finds Black but the Dementors arrive and brutally attack them both until an unseen person casts a powerful Patronus charm to ward them off.
Harry falls unconscious and awakens in the hospital wing, while Black has been recaptured and, with Pettigrew gone, sentenced to the Dementor's Kiss. With Dumbledore's advice, Harry and Hermione use her Time-Turner to travel back in time and rescue Buckbeak from execution. Harry realizes he had saved himself and Black previously with a Patronus charm and used it to drive the Dementors away. They successfully free Black, who escapes on Buckbeak. Lupin subsequently resigns, Severus Snape having exposed his secret condition as a werewolf. Harry receives a new Firebolt broomstick from Black.

Cast

Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter: A 13-year-old British wizard famous for surviving his parents' murder at the hands of the evil dark wizard Lord Voldemort as an infant, who now enters his third year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley: Harry's best friend at Hogwarts and a younger member of the Weasley wizarding family.
Emma Watson as Hermione Granger: Harry's other best friend and the trio's brains.
Robbie Coltrane as Rubeus Hagrid: The gamekeeper and new Care of Magical Creatures teacher at Hogwarts.
Michael Gambon as Albus Dumbledore:The headmaster of Hogwarts and one of the greatest wizards of all time. Gambon assumed the role after Richard Harris, who played Dumbledore in the previous two films, died of Hodgkin's disease on 25 October 2002, three weeks before the second film's release. Despite his illness, Harris was determined to film his part, telling a visiting David Heyman not to recast the role. Four months after Harris's death, Cuarón chose Gambon as his replacement. Gambon was unconcerned with bettering or copying Harris, giving his own interpretation instead, but putting on a slight Irish accent for the role as an homage to him. He completed his scenes in three weeks. The producers originally offered the role to Ian McKellen, but McKellen turned it down as he had played a similar character Gandalf in The Lord of the Rings trilogy. He also stated it would have been inappropriate to take Harris' role, as Harris had previously called McKellen a "dreadful" actor. Christopher Lee was also considered; he later said that it would have been in very "bad taste" if he was offered the role. Harris' family had expressed an interest in seeing Harris's close friend Peter O'Toole being chosen as his replacement, but the producers felt that his age and health would become troublesome down the line. According to Columbus, O'Toole turned down the role due to his close friend relationship with Harris, feeling that it didn't feel right to step into his shoes.
Richard Griffiths as Vernon Dursley: Harry's Muggle uncle.
Gary Oldman as Sirius Black:Harry's infamous godfather, who escapes from the Wizarding prison Azkaban after serving twelve years there for being wrongly accused of being the Death Eater who betrayed Harry's parents to Voldemort. Oldman accepted the part because he needed the money, as he had not taken on any major work in several years after deciding to spend more time with his children. He was "surprised by how difficult it was to pull off", comparing the role to Shakespearean dialogue.
Alan Rickman as Severus Snape: The Potions teacher at Hogwarts and head of Slytherin.
Fiona Shaw as Petunia Dursley: Harry's Muggle aunt.
Maggie Smith as Minerva McGonagall: Deputy Headmistress of Hogwarts, the Transfiguration teacher at Hogwarts and head of Gryffindor.
Timothy Spall as Peter Pettigrew: A former friend of Harry's parents said to have been killed by Sirius Black, but was later revealed to have been the real Death Eater who betrayed Harry's parents to Voldemort.
David Thewlis as Professor Lupin:The new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts and a werewolf. Robin Williams was interested in the role, but was turned down due to the "British only" cast rule. Thewlis, who had previously auditioned for the role of Quirinus Quirrell in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001), was Cuarón's first choice for the role of Professor Lupin. He accepted the role on advice from Ian Hart, who was cast as Quirrell, and had told him that Professor Lupin was "the best part in the book." Thewlis had seen the first two films and had only read part of the first book, although he read the third after taking the role.
Emma Thompson as Sybill Trelawney: The Divination teacher at Hogwarts. Tilda Swinton was offered the role, but turned it down.
Julie Walters as Molly Weasley: Ron's mother.
Bonnie Wright as Ginny Weasley
Several actors from the previous film reprise their roles in Prisoner of Azkaban. Harry Melling appears as Dudley Dursley, Harry's Muggle cousin. James and Oliver Phelps play Fred and George Weasley, Ron's twin brothers; Chris Rankin appears as Percy Weasley, Ron's other brother and a Hogwarts head boy; while Mark Williams plays their father, Arthur Weasley. Tom Felton portrays Draco Malfoy, Harry's rival in Slytherin, while Jamie Waylett and Josh Herdman appear as Crabbe and Goyle, Draco's minions. Matthew Lewis and Devon Murray play Neville Longbottom and Seamus Finnigan respectively, two Gryffindor students in Harry's year. David Bradley appears as Argus Filch, Hogwarts' caretaker, while Robert Hardy portrays Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic.
Pam Ferris portrays Aunt Marge, Vernon's sister; Lee Ingleby plays Stan Shunpike, conductor of the Knight Bus; and Jim Tavaré appears as Tom, innkeeper of The Leaky Cauldron, replacing Derek Deadman from the first film. Dawn French plays the Fat Lady, a painting at Hogwarts, replacing Elizabeth Spriggs from the first film. Julie Christie appears as Madam Rosmerta, the barmaid at the Three Broomsticks. Warwick Davis appears as the conductor of the Hogwarts choir. The role was offered to him by producer David Heyman due to Filius Flitwick, Davis' original role, being absent from the script. The change in appearance for the new character later became Flitwick's look for the rest of the series. Lenny Henry and Paul Whitehouse have voice cameos as a shrunken head on the Knight Bus and painting subject Sir Cadogan, respectively.

Production

Development
With the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, production of the Harry Potter films switched to an eighteen-month cycle, which producer David Heyman explained was "to give each [film] the time it required." Chris Columbus, the director of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001) and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002), chose to return as a producer instead alongside Hayman as Columbus felt that offered him better work-life balance, allowing him to not be present on the set all the time and spend time with his children. Guillermo del Toro was approached to direct, but had envisioned a more Dickensian version of the stories, and was put off by the first two films which he found too "bright and happy and full of light". Marc Forster turned down the film because he had made Finding Neverland (2004) and did not want to direct child actors again. M. Night Shyamalan was considered to direct but turned it down because he was working on his own film, The Village (2004). Warner Bros. then composed a three-name shortlist for Columbus's replacement, which consisted of Callie Khouri, Kenneth Branagh (who played Gilderoy Lockhart in Chamber of Secrets) and eventual selection Alfonso Cuarón in July 2002. Cuarón was initially reluctant to direct, as he had not read any of the books or seen the films. Del Toro berated him for his arrogance and told him to read the books. After reading the series, he changed his mind and signed on to direct, as he had immediately connected to the story.
Cuarón's appointment pleased J. K. Rowling, who loved his film Y tu mamá también (2001) and was impressed with his 1995 adaptation of A Little Princess (1905). Heyman found that "tonally and stylistically, [Cuarón] was the perfect fit." As his first exercise with the actors who portray the central trio, Cuarón assigned Radcliffe, Grint and Watson to write an autobiographical essay about their character, written in the first person, spanning birth to the discovery of the magical world, and including the character's emotional experience. Cuarón recalls, "Emma's essay was 10 pages long. Daniel's was exactly two. Rupert didn't deliver the essay. When I questioned why he didn't do it, he said, 'I'm Ron; Ron wouldn't do it.' So I said, 'Okay, you do understand your character.' That was the most important piece of acting work that we did on Prisoner of Azkaban, because it was very clear that everything they put in those essays was going to be the pillars they were going to hold on to for the rest of the process."

Costume and set design

Cuarón wanted to establish a more mature tone in the characters' costumes and the sets. He explained, "What I really wanted to do was to make Hogwarts more contemporary and a little more naturalistic." He studied English schools and noted, "Each teenager's individuality was reflected in the way they wore their uniform. So I asked all the kids in the film to wear their uniforms as they would if their parents weren't around." Columbus considered the costumes changes as "a reflection of the character development within the books themselves" and their transition to teenagers. Whereas in the first two films the characters are constantly in their uniforms, in Prisoner of Azkaban the characters often wear modern street clothes. Rowling, who was consulted for this change, stated, "for me the cloaks and everything makes sense for the academic time but in personal time they would be wearing their own clothes." Jany Temime joined the film as costume designer, eventually working on all of the following instalments in the series.
For Remus Lupin, Temime opted for "tweeds typical of England." Cuarón stated that the character should look like "an uncle who parties hard on the weekends", so Temime preserved his gown "unkempt and more shabby than the other teachers' robes." For Trelawney, Thompson made sketches of the costumes and sent them to Temime and Cuarón. Thompson saw the character as "a person who hasn't looked in the mirror for a long time". In order to highlight the character's short-sightedness, Temime used material filled with mirrors and eyes, as well as oversized glasses with magnifying lenses. Cuarón wanted Dumbledore to look like "an old hippie, but still very chic and with a lot of class". Temime used tie-dyed silk that would float behind him while walking, which she considered "a much lighter look" that gave the character more energy, in contrast with the "heavy and majestic" costumes designed for Harris' portrayal of Dumbledore.

Cuarón's main concern was for Hogwarts to have a larger scope and be grounded in the real world. The scale model of the Hogwarts exterior designed for the first film was expanded by around 40% for Prisoner of Azkaban. Production designer Stuart Craig and art director Gary Tomkins added constructions including a clock tower and a courtyard, and the hospital wing was redesigned and rebuilt. Other sets constructed for the film included the Hogsmeade village and The Three Broomsticks public house.
The use of real-life locations significantly changed the look of Hagrid's hut. For Prisoner of Azkaban, the landscape around the set changed from being completely flat to the side of a hill. The hut doubled in size, with a separate bedroom built on the back and the addition of a large pumpkin patch and a chimney. Craig cited the Shrieking Shack as a particularly challenging set to create. It was built on a large hydraulic platform with the help of the special effects department, "creaking and moving as if being continually buffeted by the wind" in order to appear almost alive.
Some sets were either reused from earlier films or used for more than one space. The Defence Against the Dark Arts and Divination classrooms were filmed in the same set. The Honeydukes set was a redress of the set of Flourish & Blotts that was seen in Chamber of Secrets, which, in turn, had been redressed from the Ollivanders set from the first film.

Filming

Principal photography began on 24 February 2003, at Leavesden Film Studios, and ended on 28 November 2003.
The third film was the first to extensively use real-life locations, as much of the first two films had been shot in the studio. Three sets for the film were built in Glen Coe, Scotland, near the Clachaig Inn. Harry's ride on Buckbeak over Hogwarts' Lake was filmed at the Virginia Water Lake in Surrey. The Black Lake was also filmed from Loch Shiel, Loch Eilt and Loch Morar in the Scottish Highlands. Incidentally, the Glenfinnan Viaduct railway, which was also featured in Chamber of Secrets, is opposite Loch Shiel and was used to film the sequences when the Dementor boarded the train. A small section of the Knight Bus scene, where it weaves in between traffic, was filmed in North London's Palmers Green on 2 April 2003. Some parts were also filmed in and around Borough Market and Lambeth Bridge in London. Certain scenes were also filmed at the University of Oxford; those set in the hospital wing were filmed at the university's Divinity School.
Director of photography Michael Seresin considered the story much darker compared to its two predecessors, so he employed "moody [lighting], with more shadows". He used a variety of wide-angle lenses to amplify Hogwarts' prominence in the story, and only used close-ups sparingly. "We prefer to observe the kids from further away, as I find body language to be very interesting", Cuarón explained.
Rowling allowed Cuarón to make minor changes to the book, on the condition that he stuck to the book's spirit. She allowed him to place a sundial on Hogwarts' grounds, but rejected a graveyard, as that would play an important part in the then-unreleased sixth book. Rowling said she "got goosebumps" when she saw several moments in the film, as they inadvertently referred to events in the final two books, she stated, "people are going to look back on the film and think that those were put in deliberately as clues." When filming concluded, Cuarón found that it had "been the two sweetest years of my life," and expressed his interest in directing one of the sequels.
The Knight Bus sequence was shot over several weeks at various locations in London. In order to give the impression of the vehicle moving at 100 miles per hour (161 km/h), stunt coordinator Greg Powell explained, "We drove the bus at about 30 miles per hour [48 km/h] and the other cars were going only about 8 [13]. It took weeks of planning with stunt drivers, and even the people you see on the street are stunt men and women, who were trained to walk incredibly slow just to make the bus look faster."

Special and visual effects

Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) and Framestore CFC handled the key visual effects shots for the film, while The Moving Picture Company (MPC), Cinesite, and Double Negative crafted additional VFX material.
Cuarón originally wanted to move away from CGI toward puppetry. He hired master puppeteer Basil Twist and experimented with underwater puppets to figure out the movements of dementors. The tests were shot in slow motion, but ultimately the method wasn't practical. The water test footage provided creative direction for the visual effects team, adding the intangible metaphysical quality Cuarón was seeking. Visual effects supervisors Tim Burke and Roger Guyett, the Industrial Light & Magic VFX team, and Temime collaborated in the creation of dementors.

Cuarón commented on the difficulty of creating Buckbeak, which took months of research and preparation, beginning with the creature's skeletal design. Cuarón said, "Once we worked out the physiology, the way his bones would actually move, we had to capture his personality, which is a mixture of regal elegance, particularly when he is flying, and the clumsy and greedy creature he becomes back on land." Creature effects supervisor Nick Dudman created several practical hippogriffs for the production, while Burke and Guyett oversaw the creation of the computer-generated version. Guyett cited the complex movement of the feathers as an achievement that had "never been done before."
The inflation of Aunt Marge was achieved practically. Ferris said, "I wore various prosthetic bodies, which inflated at different rates, and at my largest, I was about four and a half feet wide." The 50 pounds (23 kg) costume prevented Ferris from walking and eating. Thirty-eight tweed suits of increasing size were used for the sequence.
Cinesite was in charge of the time travel shot featured in the film, which was over a minute long. The main action was filmed on a steadicam against bluescreen, and four minutes of background footage was shot separately. The background was then sped up and composited behind the main action. Two other plates of background footage were tiled together as the camera turned.

Music

When it was announced that Cuarón would direct Prisoner of Azkaban, there was initial speculation that his collaborative composer Patrick Doyle (who would score the following film) would do the music. Cuarón, however, retained John Williams, for whom it would be the third and final movie he scored in the series. The soundtrack was a significant departure from the previous two, as Cuarón wanted the score to take a different approach. One of the new themes, "Double Trouble", was written during production for a children's choir to perform in Hogwarts's Great Hall in one of the film's earlier scenes. The lyrics of the song were taken from William Shakespeare's Macbeth.  The soundtrack album was released by Atlantic Records on 25 May 2004.

Differences from the book
Prisoner of Azkaban was, at the time of publication, the series' longest book. The increasing plot complexity necessitated a looser adaptation of the book's finer plot lines and back-story. The connection between Harry's father and the Marauder's Map is only briefly mentioned, as is Remus Lupin's association to the map. Additionally, it was never mentioned who the Marauders were or who the nicknames Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs referred to. Some exposition was removed for dramatic effect: both the Shrieking Shack and Scabbers the rat are mentioned only very briefly in the film, while they receive more thorough coverage in the novel. Most of Sirius Black's back story is also cut, with no mention of how he escaped from Azkaban.
On account of pace and time considerations, the film glosses over detailed descriptions of magical education. Only one Hippogriff, Buckbeak, is seen, and only Draco Malfoy and Harry are seen interacting with the Hippogriff during Care of Magical Creatures lessons. Most other lessons, including all of Snape's Potions classes, were cut from the film. The Fidelius Charm's complicated description is removed entirely from the film, with no explanation given of exactly how Sirius is supposed to have betrayed the Potters to Lord Voldemort. Many of this scene's lines are redistributed amongst Cornelius Fudge and Minerva McGonagall; in compensation, McGonagall's exposition of the Animagus transformation is instead given by Snape.
The romantic connection between Ron and Hermione is more prominent in the film than the book; in response to criticism of the first two films for sacrificing character development for mystery and adventure, the emotional development of all three lead characters is given more attention in the third film. However, any mention of Harry's crush on Cho Chang is removed, and she first appears in the fourth film. Prisoner of Azkaban also shows a darker tone and more of Harry's emotions. For instance, after learning of Black's "betrayal" of Harry's parents, he shouts in anger "I'm gonna kill him", whereas in the book he is "too stunned to move".
In the book, Gryffindor wins the Quidditch Cup for the first time in the series, a rather significant character-development subplot that is almost completely omitted from the film. Only the first Quidditch match of the school year (where Harry's Nimbus 2000 broomstick is destroyed) is part of the film's narrative, and there are no other mentions of the sport or the Gryffindor team's successful campaign for the Cup during the rest of the film. The final scene before the credits shows Harry on his new broomstick, the Firebolt, as a known gift from Sirius after his aided escape from captivity, whereas in the book, the new broomstick is an anonymous gift midyear from Sirius (unbeknownst to Harry or anyone else at the time) that is examined by the Hogwarts staff for safety and security reasons before it eventually is given to Harry for use in pursuit of the Cup championship.

Release

Box office
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban held its New York premiere at Radio City Music Hall on 23 May 2004, followed by its London premiere at Leicester Square on 30 May 2004. The film then opened in the United Kingdom on 31 May 2004, and on 4 June 2004 in the United States. It was the first film in the series to be released in both conventional and IMAX theatres. Upon release, the film broke the record for a biggest single day in the United Kingdom's box office history making £5.3 million on a Monday. It went on to break records both with and without previews, making £23.9 million including previews and £9.3 million excluding them. The Prisoner of Azkaban had the highest-opening weekend at the UK's box office, until Spectre beat the record in 2015. It went on to make a total of £45.6 million in the UK. The film made $93.7 million during its opening weekend in the United States and Canada playing on 8,900 screens at 3,855 theaters, achieving, at the time, the third-biggest-opening weekend of all time. This opening also broke Hulk's record ($62.1 million) for the highest-opening weekend for a film released in June. The Prisoner of Azkaban held this record for five years until Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen topped it in 2009 with $109 million. Additionally, it surpassed The Matrix Reloaded for having the largest opening weekend for a Warner Bros. Pictures film. The film was also No. 1 at the North American box office for two consecutive weekends.
The Prisoner of Azkaban made a total of $810.6 million worldwide, which made it 2004's second-highest-grossing film worldwide behind Shrek 2. In the U.S. and Canada, it was only the year's sixth-highest-grossing film, making $250.7 million. However, it was the year's number one film internationally, making $558.3 million compared to Shrek 2's $487.5 million. Despite its successful box office run, The Prisoner of Azkaban is the lowest-grossing Harry Potter film, and the third lowest-grossing film of the Wizarding World series.

Merchandise
As with the previous films in the series, Prisoner of Azkaban was a large merchandising opportunity. The video game version, designed by EA UK, was released on 25 May 2004. Mattel released film tie-ins that included the Harry Potter Championship Quidditch board game and character action figures. Lego also expanded on its previous merchandising for the first two films with the release of sets that included the Knight Bus, Shrieking Shack and a new Hogwarts castle.

Home media
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was released on DVD and on VHS on 23 November 2004. The 2-disc Special Editions later came out on DVD and Blu-ray on 4 October 2016. The film was also released on Ultra HD Blu-ray on 7 November 2017.

Reception

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 91% based on 264 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, "Under the assured direction of Alfonso Cuarón, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban triumphantly strikes a delicate balance between technical wizardry and complex storytelling." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 82 out of 100, based on 40 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A" on an A+ to F scale.
Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle lauded the film's more mature tone and said it was "darker, more complex, rooted in character." The Hollywood Reporter called the film "a deeper, darker, visually arresting and more emotionally satisfying adaptation of the J.K. Rowling literary phenomenon," especially compared to the first two films. Peter Travers of Rolling Stone gave the film three-and-a-half out of four stars: "Not only is this dazzler by far the best and most thrilling of the three Harry Potter movies to date, it's a film that can stand on its own even if you never heard of author J.K. Rowling and her young wizard hero." Stephanie Zacharek of Salon considered it "one of the greatest fantasy films of all time." Nicole Arthur of The Washington Post praised the film as "complex, frightening, [and] nuanced." Film critic Roger Ebert gave the film three-and-a-half out of four stars, saying that the film was not quite as good as the first two, but still called it "delightful, amusing and sophisticated". Claudia Puig from USA Today found the film to be "a visual delight," and added that "Cuarón is not afraid to make a darker film and tackle painful emotions"; while Richard Roeper called the film "a creative triumph." Sean Smith from Newsweek said: "The Prisoner of Azkaban boasts a brand-new director and a bold new vision," and called the film "moving," praising the performances by the three main leads.  Entertainment Weekly praised the film for being more mature than its predecessors.
The Guardian gave the film 3 stars out of 5, saying, "This new Harry Potter picture will cast a spell on its fanbase. But the broomstick's losing altitude." Screen Daily commented, "Cuaron delivers a genuinely spooky and emotionally involving adventure which gives the world of Potter much-needed character and atmosphere". The BBC commended the sets and direction, but did not find it "emotionally engrossing". Hollywood.com gave a positive review, praising the plot and storyline, despite a deviation from the first two films.

Accolades
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban received two Academy Award nominations: Best Visual Effects and Best Original Score for John Williams. The film was also nominated for four BAFTA Awards: Best British Film, Best Production Design, Best Makeup & Hair, and Best Visual Effects, and won public-voted Orange Film of the Year award. It received nine Saturn Awards nominations. It won two Visual Effects Society Awards and was nominated for three others. The Broadcast Film Critics Association nominated it for Best Family Film, Best Young Actor (for Daniel Radcliffe), and Best Young Actress (for Emma Watson).
The film ranks at No. 471 in Empire magazine's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time. IGN designated Prisoner of Azkaban as the fifth best fantasy film. Additionally, Moviefone designated the film as the tenth best of the decade. In 2011, the film was voted Film of the Decade at the First Light Awards by children aged 5–15. The American Film Institute nominated it for the 2007 revision of AFI's 100 Years...100 Movies, and for AFI's 10 Top 10 in the fantasy genre.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter (character)

Harry Potter is a fictional character and the protagonist of the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. The plot of the seven-book series chronicles seven years in the life of the orphan Harry, who, on his eleventh birthday, learns he is a wizard. He attends Hogwarts, a school of magic, where he receives guidance from the headmaster Albus Dumbledore and becomes friends with Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. Harry learns that during his infancy, the dark wizard Lord Voldemort murdered his parents but was unable to kill him as well. The plot of the series revolves around Harry's struggle to adapt to the wizarding world and defeat Voldemort.
Harry is regarded as a fictional icon and has been described by critics and publications as one of the greatest characters of all time. He is portrayed by Daniel Radcliffe in all eight Harry Potter films, and will be played by Dominic McLaughlin in the upcoming television series. Harry also appears in the play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, which has been produced on stage since 2016.

Character
According to Rowling, the idea for Harry Potter and the novel series came to her while she was waiting for a train in 1990. She first conceived of Harry as a "scrawny, black-haired, bespectacled boy" who is unaware that he is a wizard. While developing ideas for the first book, she decided to make Harry an orphan who attends a boarding school called Hogwarts. She explained in a 1999 interview with The Guardian: "Harry had to be an orphan—so that he's a free agent, with no fear of letting down his parents, disappointing them ... Then there's the security. Having a child of my own reinforces my belief that children above all want security, and that's what Hogwarts offers Harry."
The death of Rowling's mother in December 1990 inspired her to write Harry as a boy longing for his dead parents. She explained that his anguish became deeper and "much more real" than in earlier drafts of the first book because she related to it herself. In a 2000 interview, Rowling said that the character Wart in T. H. White's novel The Once and Future King is Harry's "spiritual ancestor". Although Rowling gave Harry her own birth date of 31 July, she maintains that he is not directly based on any real-life person. She says that he came "out of a part of [her]".
In the novels, Harry is described as having his father's perpetually untidy black hair, his mother's bright green eyes, and a lightning bolt-shaped scar on his forehead. At the beginning of the series, he is short and skinny for his age, but in later novels he grows enough that other characters describe him as tall. Harry has a thin face and "knobbly" knees, and he wears Windsor glasses, which Rowling said point to his vulnerability. When asked about the meaning behind Harry's scar, Rowling said she wanted him to be "physically marked by what he has been through". She said the scar is "an outward expression of what he has been through inside".
Rowling has described Harry as honourable. She says that he is strongly guided by his own conscience, and has a keen feeling of what is right and wrong. In her eyes, he is competitive but not cruel, and he is a fighter who refuses to take abuse. She calls him a normal boy who has qualities most people admire, which makes him a hero in her view, and very likeable. She has claimed that Harry is a suitable role model for real-world children.
Rowling admits that Harry sometimes makes mistakes, and she says his character flaws include anger and impulsiveness. She said that because he has limited access to caring adults, he is forced to make his own choices at a younger age than most people. According to Rowling, a pivotal moment in Harry's life occurs in the fourth novel, when he protects the body of Cedric Diggory from Voldemort, because it shows he is brave and selfless.

Appearances

Novels

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Harry is first introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) as an orphan living with his abusive aunt and uncle, Vernon and Petunia Dursley, and their bullying son, Dudley. On his eleventh birthday, Harry discovers he is a wizard when Rubeus Hagrid brings him an acceptance letter from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Harry learns that his parents, James and Lily Potter, were murdered by a powerful Dark wizard, Lord Voldemort, who also tried to kill Harry. However, Voldemort's killing curse bounced back and apparently destroyed him, leaving Harry with a lightning-bolt-shaped scar on his forehead. Due to his miraculous survival, Harry became famous among wizards.
Hagrid takes Harry to Diagon Alley to shop for school supplies. Harry buys a wand, and the proprietor tells him that his wand and Voldemort's wand contain feathers from the same phoenix. At the end of the summer, Harry boards the Hogwarts Express, where he befriends Ron Weasley and meets Hermione Granger. When he arrives at Hogwarts, he is assigned to Gryffindor House by the Sorting Hat. During the school year, he receives guidance from the Transfiguration professor Minerva McGonagall and the headmaster Albus Dumbledore. He develops animosity towards a fellow first-year named Draco Malfoy, and becomes increasingly wary of the Potions professor, Severus Snape. Harry and Ron become friends with Hermione after they save her from a troll, and Harry becomes the youngest Seeker on the Gryffindor Quidditch team in a century.
During Christmas holidays, Harry receives an anonymous gift – his father's invisibility cloak. Aided by the cloak, he is able to explore the school freely. He, Ron and Hermione decide to enter a trapdoor they discovered one night, which is guarded by an enormous three-headed dog. They believe a valuable magical object, the Philosopher's Stone, lies beyond the door. After they navigate a series of obstacles, Harry faces Professor Quirrell, whose body has been possessed by Voldemort. When Harry obtains the Stone, Quirrell tries to kill him. However, Quirrell's flesh burns upon contact with Harry's skin, and Harry passes out.
Harry awakens in the Hogwarts infirmary, where Dumbledore explains that Harry was protected by his mother's love, which also killed Quirrell. Voldemort survived, and the Philosopher's Stone was destroyed. During the school's end-of-year feast, Gryffindor is awarded the House Cup thanks to the many points Harry and his friends obtained from their adventure.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
In Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998), Muggle-born students are being Petrified in the Hogwarts castle. Some students suspect that Harry is behind the attacks, which alienates him from his peers. Harry learns that he shares Voldemort's ability to communicate with snakes, and he begins to question whether he is worthy of Gryffindor House. After Ron's sister Ginny disappears, Harry enters the Chamber of Secrets to rescue her. He battles Tom Riddle, a version of Voldemort that lives in a diary which had possessed Ginny. In addition to Riddle, Harry encounters the basilisk which has been attacking students. To defeat it, Harry summons the Sword of Gryffindor from the Sorting Hat. After Harry triumphs over the basilisk and saves Ginny, Dumbledore reassures him that he is worthy of Gryffindor.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Near the beginning of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999), Harry becomes angry after his Aunt Marge disparages his parents. He accidentally inflates her with magic, then runs away from home. As he re-enters the wizarding community, he learns about Sirius Black, a notorious killer who escaped from the wizard prison Azkaban. On the train to Hogwarts, Harry is assaulted by Dementors, which cause him to relive his worst memories. During a Care of Magical Creatures lesson with Hagrid, Draco is injured after provoking a hippogriff named Buckbeak. As a result, the Ministry of Magic sentences Buckbeak to death. After Harry has more encounters with Dementors, he asks the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Remus Lupin, to help him ward them off. Lupin teaches Harry the Patronus charm, which Harry struggles to master.
While in the village of Hogsmeade, Harry learns that his parents were betrayed by Sirius, their friend and Harry's godfather, and that Sirius also killed Peter Pettigrew. After Ron is taken to the Shrieking Shack by a wild dog, Harry and Hermione give chase and realize the dog is Sirius in Animagus form. Lupin arrives, and he and Sirius explain that Sirius did not kill Pettigrew. They also reveal that Ron's pet rat, Scabbers, is Pettigrew. Lupin then transforms into a werewolf and injures Sirius, and Pettigrew escapes amid the chaos. A swarm of Dementors appear, but they are driven off by a Patronus cast by a mysterious figure.
Awakening in the school infirmary, Harry and Hermione learn that Sirius is being held captive in Hogwarts and is awaiting the Dementor's Kiss. At Dumbledore's advice, they use a Time-Turner to travel back in time to the moment before Buckbeak's execution. After they save the hippogriff, Harry notices the past versions of himself, Hermione, and Sirius being attacked by Dementors. He conjures a strong Patronus to fight them off, then realizes that he was the mysterious figure who appeared earlier. Harry and Hermione free Sirius, who flies away on Buckbeak, still a wanted fugitive. Harry and Hermione then return to their original timeline.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), Harry is mysteriously chosen by the Goblet of Fire to compete in the dangerous Triwizard Tournament, even though another Hogwarts champion, Cedric Diggory, has already been selected. During the Tournament's final challenge, Harry and Cedric are transported to a graveyard, where Cedric is killed by Peter Pettigrew. Voldemort, aided by Pettigrew, uses Harry's blood to resurrect his body. Harry then duels Voldemort, and their wands connect. Spirit echoes of Voldemort's victims, including Harry's parents, emerge from his wand. The spirits protect Harry as he escapes to Hogwarts with Cedric's body.
Rowling said it was necessary to depict violence and death in this novel because it allows Harry's bravery and compassion to show. She said that Harry's effort to prevent Cedric's body from falling into Voldemort's hands was based on the scene in Homer's Iliad where Achilles retrieves the corpse of his friend Patroclus from his enemy Hector. She stated that Goblet of Fire marks a turning point in Harry's life—he has been "very protected until now" but now he is no longer protected.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003), the Ministry of Magic wages a smear campaign against Harry and Dumbledore, disputing their claims that Voldemort has returned. The Ministry appoints Dolores Umbridge as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. Because the Ministry suspects that Dumbledore is building a student army, Umbridge refuses to teach students practical defensive magic. Harry, Hermione and Ron subsequently form a secret group called Dumbledore's Army to teach students defensive spells. The group is disbanded, however, when one student informs Umbridge about it. To shield his students from punishment, Dumbledore falsely claims that Dumbledore's Army was his idea. As a result, he is ousted from his position as headmaster and replaced with Umbridge.
During this time, Harry's increasingly angry and erratic behaviour nearly estranges him from Ron and Hermione. He suffers another emotional blow when his godfather Sirius is killed by the Death Eater Bellatrix Lestrange during a battle at the Department of Mysteries. Also present is Voldemort, who tries to possess Harry so Dumbledore will kill him. This ruse fails, and Harry and Dumbledore thwart Voldemort's plan to steal an important prophecy. Later, Dumbledore explains to Harry that Voldemort chose Harry as his equal, and that either he or Voldemort must eventually kill the other. A subplot of the novel involves Harry's romance with Cho Chang, which quickly unravels.
Rowling said she put Harry through extreme emotional stress in Order of the Phoenix to show his emotional vulnerability and humanity, which contrast with Voldemort's inhumanity.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005), Dumbledore brings Harry along as he attempts to persuade Horace Slughorn to rejoin the Hogwarts faculty as the Potions professor. Harry excels in Slughorn's class after he begins using an old textbook that once belonged to someone known as "The Half-Blood Prince". Outside of class, Dumbledore uses the Pensieve to teach Harry about Voldemort's life and his rise to power. Harry and Dumbledore learn that Voldemort created six Horcruxes to gain immortality, and that they must be destroyed before Voldemort can be killed. Harry repeatedly warns Dumbledore that Draco Malfoy is an agent of Voldemort, but Dumbledore refuses to take action against Draco. He tells Harry that he already knows more about what is happening than Harry does. During the course of the novel, Harry becomes romantically involved with Ginny.
Near the end of the book, Dumbledore and Harry enter a cave in search of a Horcrux. Dumbledore drinks a potion inside the Horcrux's container and begins to scream in agony. When Harry attempts to retrieve some lake water for Dumbledore to drink, he is attacked by Inferi. They try to drown Harry, but Dumbledore rescues him. Dumbledore and Harry then return to the Hogwarts Astronomy Tower with the Horcrux. Dumbledore asks Harry not to interfere in the events that are about to take place, and puts him in a body-binding curse. Immobilized, Harry is unable to intervene as Snape arrives and kills Dumbledore. Later, Harry ends his relationship with Ginny to protect her from Voldemort.
Rowling said that Harry's tumultuous puberty in the novel is based on her own difficult teenage years and those of her sister. She said that after Half-Blood Prince Harry becomes "battle-hardened" and is ready to fight and take revenge against Voldemort and Snape.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry, Ron, and Hermione leave Hogwarts in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007) to search for and demolish Voldemort's four remaining Horcruxes. They must be destroyed with basilisk venom, the Sword of Gryffindor, or some other powerful means. Ron, Hermione, Vincent Crabbe and Neville Longbottom each destroy one of these Horcruxes. After a battle at Hogwarts, Harry goes into the Forbidden Forest to meet Voldemort, who uses the Elder Wand to cast the Killing Curse on Harry. The curse stuns Harry into a deathlike state, and he finds himself in an ethereal realm with Dumbledore. The deceased headmaster tells Harry that he is a Horcrux that Voldemort unknowingly created. There was a part of Voldemort's soul inside Harry, but it was destroyed by the curse Voldemort cast moments ago. Harry subsequently returns to the living world and duels with Voldemort. Voldemort uses the Killing Curse again, but it rebounds and kills him. Harry, not Voldemort, was the true master of the Elder Wand, and the wand did not wish to harm its master. Harry decides to leave the Elder Wand in Dumbledore's tomb and the Resurrection Stone hidden in the forest, but he keeps the Invisibility Cloak.
In the epilogue, set nineteen years after Voldemort's death, Harry and Ginny are a married couple and have three children: James Sirius Potter, Albus Severus Potter and Lily Luna Potter. Albus is departing for his first year at Hogwarts, and is worried that he will be sorted into Slytherin. Harry explains to him that not all Slytherins are bad, and that his life will be shaped by his own choices.
Rowling said the death of Harry's owl Hedwig in Deathly Hallows represents a loss of innocence and security. She said that Hedwig's death upset many readers.

Film adaptations

Harry is portrayed by Daniel Radcliffe in all eight Harry Potter film adaptations. Radcliffe was asked to audition for the role in 2000 by David Heyman, who was producing the first film in the series. Radcliffe met Heyman while attending a London play called Stones in His Pockets.
In a 2007 interview with MTV, Radcliffe described the development of his character during the course of the series: "That's what the films are about for me: a loss of innocence, going from being a young kid in awe of the world around him, to someone who is more battle-hardened by the end of it." Radcliffe said that after the death of Cedric Diggory in Goblet of Fire, Harry experiences survivor's guilt and feels immense loneliness. Because of this, Radcliffe talked to a bereavement counsellor to help him prepare for the role. Radcliffe stated that the question he has most frequently been asked is how Harry Potter has influenced his life, to which he regularly answers it has been "fine". He felt it was a tremendous privilege to play Harry, and he did not feel pigeonholed by the role.
In 2011, Empire magazine ranked Radcliffe's Harry Potter as the 36th greatest film character of all time. The magazine published another character ranking in 2018, this time placing Harry at 67th.

Stage adaptation
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is a play written by Jack Thorne from a story by Thorne, J. K. Rowling and John Tiffany. It takes place nineteen years after the events of Deathly Hallows. In the play, Harry is Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement at the Ministry of Magic. The story focuses on Harry's son, Albus Severus Potter.

Television adaptation
Harry is set to be portrayed by Scottish actor Dominic McLaughlin in the upcoming HBO television series Harry Potter.

Reception
In 2002, Book magazine ranked Harry Potter No. 85 among the "100 Best Fictional Characters since 1900". Entertainment Weekly ranked him number 2 on its 2010 "100 Greatest Characters of the Last 20 Years" list, saying "Long after we've turned the last page and watched the last end credit, Harry still feels like someone we know. And that's the most magical thing about him." Harry was ranked number 36 on Empire's 2008 list of "100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time". IGN said that Harry was their favourite Harry Potter character, calling him a "sympathetic figure". The Reverend John Killinger has called the Harry Potter series "the Christ story of the 21st century", and has argued that Harry is a Christ figure. Rowling revealed in 2007 that she was inspired by Christian themes when writing the novels.
Harry has also received criticism. In 2010, he was voted the 35th "Worst Briton" on Channel 4's "100 Worst Britons We Love to Hate" programme. Writing in The Irish Times, Ed Power called Harry an "anointed cherub" who is "told he is special" before he achieves anything.

In popular culture

The Harry Potter series has inspired "wizard rock" bands whose members dress up like Harry during performances. According to MTV, the genre was popularized by the Massachusetts duo Harry and the Potters in 2002, and became an international phenomenon, although it waned in popularity after the release of the final Harry Potter novel.
Harry Potter is parodied in the Barry Trotter book series by American writer Michael Gerber. The series features the antihero Barry Trotter, who has been described by Gerber as an unpleasant character who "drinks too much, eats like a pig, sleeps until noon, and owes everybody money".


================================================================================

# Harry Potter fandom

The Harry Potter fandom is the community of fans of the Harry Potter books and films who participate in entertainment activities that revolve around the series, such as reading and writing fan fiction, creating and soliciting fan art, engaging in role-playing games, socialising on Harry Potter-based forums, and more. The fandom interacts online as well as offline through activities such as fan conventions, participating in cosplay, tours of iconic landmarks relevant to the books and production of the films, and parties held for the midnight release of each book and film.
By the fourth Harry Potter book, the legions of fans had grown so large that considerable security measures were taken to ensure that no copy of the book was leaked before the official release date. Harry Potter is considered one of the few four-quadrant, multi-generation spanning franchises that exist today, despite Rowling's original marketing of the books to tweens and teens.

Pottermania

Pottermania is an informal term first used around 1999 describing the craze Harry Potter fans have had over the series. Fans held midnight parties to celebrate the release of the final four books at bookstores which stayed open on the night leading into the date of the release. In 2005, Entertainment Weekly listed the midnight release of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire as one of "Entertainment's Top Moments" of the previous 25 years.
Diehard fans of the series are called "Potterheads". Some even theme their weddings around Harry Potter. A Bridal Guide featured two real weddings soon before the release of the final film, which quickly spread through the fandom via Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr.
The craze over the series was referenced in Lauren Weisberger's 2003 novel The Devil Wears Prada as well as its 2006 film adaptation. In the story, the protagonist Andrea Sachs is ordered to retrieve two copies of the next instalment in the series for her boss's twins before they are published so that they can be privately flown to France, where the twins and their mother are on holiday.
Some celebrity fans of Harry Potter include Lily Allen, Guillermo del Toro, Ariana Grande, Stephen King, Keira Knightley, Jennifer Lawrence, Evanna Lynch, Barack Obama, Simon Pegg, ASAP Rocky, Seth Rogen, Matt Smith, Jeremy Davis, Kellan Lutz, and Margot Robbie. Robert Pattinson said of the series, "Harry Potter was what made me become an actor. I credit Harry Potter with everything else that's come since for me. I didn't know what I was doing before that."

Fan sites
There are many fan web sites about Harry Potter on the Internet, the oldest ones dating to about 1997 or 1998. One of the most famous sites allows fans of the book an opportunity to be sorted into a house themselves. J. K. Rowling has an open relationship with her fan base, and since 2004 periodically hands out a "fan site award" on her official web site. The first site to receive the award was Immeritus, a fan site mostly devoted to Sirius Black, and about which Rowling wrote, "I am so proud of the fact that a character, whom I always liked very much, though he never appeared as much more than a brooding presence in the books, has gained a passionate fan-club."
In 2004, after Immeritus, Rowling bestowed the honour upon four sites. The first was Godric's Hollow; for some time however, the site's domain name was occupied by advertisers and its content was lost and there is no further record on Rowling's site that Godric's Hollow ever received the award, although in 2010 the website came back online again albeit with a lot of content missing. The next site was the Harry Potter Lexicon, an online encyclopedia Rowling has admitted to visiting while writing away from home rather than buying a copy of her books in a store. She called it "for the dangerously obsessive; my natural home." The third site of 2004 was MuggleNet, a web site featuring the latest news in the Potter world, among editorials, forums, and a podcast. Rowling wrote when giving the award, "It's high time I paid homage to the mighty MuggleNet," and listed all the features she loved, including "the pretty-much-exhaustive information on all books and films." The last site was HPANA, the first fan site Rowling ever visited, "faster off the mark with Harry Potter news than any other site" Rowling knows, and "fantastically user-friendly."
In 2005, only The Leaky Cauldron was honoured. In Rowling's words, "it is about the worst kept secret on this website that I am a huge fan of The Leaky Cauldron," which she calls a "wonderfully well designed mine of accurate information on all things Harry Potter." On another occasion, Rowling has called the Leaky Cauldron her "favourite fan site." In 2006, the Brazilian website Potterish was the only site honoured, in recognition of its "style, [its] Potter-expertise and [its] responsible reporting."
In May 2007, Harry Potter Fan Zone received the award. Rowling recognised the insightful editorials as well as praised the site for its young and dedicated staff. In December 2007, the award went to The Harry Potter Alliance, a campaign that seeks to end discrimination, genocide, poverty, AIDS, global warming, and other "real-world Dark Arts", relating these problems to the books. Rowling called the project "extraordinary" and "most inspirational", and paralleled its mission to "the values for which Dumbledore's Army fought in the books". In an article about her in Time magazine, Rowling expressed her gratefulness at the site's successful work raising awareness and sign-up levels among anti-genocide coalitions.
At one time, Warner Bros., which owns the rights to Harry Potter and its affiliates, tried to shut down the sites. The unsuccessful attempt eventually led to their inviting the webmasters of the top sites to premieres of the films and tours of the film sets, because of their close connection with the fans. Warner Bros. executives have acknowledged that many fans are disappointed that certain elements of the books are left out, but not trying to avoid criticism, "bringing the fan sites into the process is what we feel is really important."
These fan sites contain news updates into the world of the books, films, and film cast members through the use of forums, image galleries, or video galleries. They also host user-submitted creations, such as fan art or fan fiction.

Podcasts
The Harry Potter fandom has embraced podcasts as a regular, often weekly, insight to the latest discussion in the fandom. Apple Inc. has featured two of the podcasts, MuggleCast and PotterCast. Both have reached the top spot of iTunes podcast rankings and have been polled one of the top 50 favorite podcasts. At the 2006 Podcast Awards, when MuggleCast and PotterCast each received two nominations for the same two categories, the two podcasts teamed up and requested listeners vote for PotterCast in the Best Entertainment category and MuggleCast in the People's Choice category. Both podcasts won these respective categories.
MuggleCast, hosted by MuggleNet staffers, was created in August 2005, not long after the release of Half-Blood Prince. Topics of the first show focused on Horcruxes, "R.A.B.", the Goblet of Fire film, which was due for release two months later, and the website DumbledoreIsNotDead.com. Since then, MuggleCast has held chapter-by-chapter discussions, character analyses, and a discussion on a "theory of the week". MuggleCast has also added humour to their podcast with segments like "Spy on Spartz," where the hosts would call MuggleNet webmaster Emerson Spartz and reveal his current location or activity with the listening audience. British staff member Jamie Lawrence tells a British joke of the week, and host Andrew Sims reads an email sent to MuggleNet with a strange request or incoherent talk (dubbed "Huh?! Email of the Week"). MuggleCast is currently the highest-rated Harry Potter podcast on the Internet.
PotterCast was released less than two weeks after MuggleCast's first episode. Produced by The Leaky Cauldron, it differed from MuggleCast with a more structured program, including various segments and involvement of more people on the Leaky Cauldron staff compared to MuggleCast. It also was the first Potter podcast to produce regular interviews with people directly involved with the books and films. The first show featured interviews with Stuart Craig, art director of the films, as well as Bonnie Wright, who plays Ginny Weasley. PotterCast has also interviewed Matthew Lewis (the actor who portrays Neville Longbottom), Evanna Lynch (Luna Lovegood), Jamie Waylett (Vincent Crabbe), Rupert Grint (Ron Weasley), Chris Columbus, Alfonso Cuarón, Mike Newell (directors of the first four films), Arthur A. Levine and Cheryl Klein (editors of the books at Scholastic), and Rowling herself.
The two sites are friendly rivals and have aired several combined episodes, which they call "The Leaky Mug", a separate podcast released on a separate feed from time to time. Live joint podcasts have been held in New York City, Las Vegas, and California. From time to time, hosts on one podcast will appear on their counterpart.
Other notable Harry Potter podcasts include:

Harry Potter and the Sacred Text, in which the books are read as if they were a religious text;
Witch Please, which looks at the books through a feminist lens;
Potterotica, in which actors read Harry Potter fan fiction aloud;
Potterless, a comedy podcast in which an adult man reads the books for the first time and tries to predict future plot points;

TikTok
TikTok has also played a major role in reviving and reshaping the online Harry Potter fandom in the late 2010s and early 2020s, particularly among Generation Z fans. Communities such as "DracoTok" became especially popular on the platform, creating new interpretations of characters through fancasts, fanfiction edits, memes, and roleplay-style videos.
“DracoTok” refers to a TikTok subcommunity centered around Draco Malfoy, often romanticizing or reinterpreting the character through edits, cosplay, and fanfiction culture. The trend became widely recognized during the COVID-19 pandemic, with many users engaging in "shifting" culture, character reenactments, and ship-based content. Media outlets including the New York Times and Vanity Fair also discussed the phenomenon as part of TikTok's broader resurgence of Harry Potter fan culture.

Fan writings

Fan fiction
Rowling has backed fan fiction stories on the Internet, stories written by fans that involve Harry Potter or other characters in the books. A March 2007 study showed that "Harry Potter" is the most searched-for fan fiction subject online. Some fans will use canon established in the books to write stories of past and future events in the Harry Potter world; others write stories that have little relation to the books other than the characters' names and the settings in which the fan fiction takes place. On FanFiction.Net, there are over 834,000, while Archive of Our Own has over 546,000 fan fictions on Harry Potter as of December 2024. There are numerous websites devoted solely to Harry Potter fan fiction. Of these, according to rankings on Alexa.com, HarryPotterFanfiction.com has grown to be the most popular.
A well-known work of fan fiction is The Shoebox Project, created by two LiveJournal users. Over 8500 people subscribed to the story so that they would be alerted when new posts update the story. The authors' works, including this project, were featured in an article in The Wall Street Journal discussing the growth in popularity of fandoms.
The current most reviewed piece of fan fiction, with over 40,000 reviews, is All The Young Dudes by Archive of our Own user MsKingBean89. The work is the most-viewed piece of fan fiction on Archive of Our Own, with over 16,000,000 hits.
In 2006, the "popular 'bad' fanfic" My Immortal was posted on FanFiction.Net by user "Tara Gilesbie". It was deleted by the site's administrators in 2008, but not before amassing over eight thousand negative reviews. It spawned a number of YouTube spoofs and a number of imitators created "sequels" claiming to be the original Tara.
In 2007, a web-based novel, James Potter and the Hall of Elders' Crossing, was written by a computer animator named George Lippert. The book was written as a supplement to fill the void after Deathly Hallows, and received eventual approval from Rowling herself.
In 2025 the novel Alchemised by SenLinYu based on their fan fiction story imagining a relationship between Hermione Granger and Draco Malfoy was set to be published by Penguin Books with the film rights purchased by Legendary Entertainment.
Rowling has said, "I find it very flattering that people love the characters that much." She has adopted a positive position on fan fiction, unlike authors such as Anne McCaffrey or Anne Rice who discourage fans from writing about their books and have asked sites like FanFiction.Net to remove all stories of their works, requests honored by the site. However, Rowling has been "alarmed by pornographic or sexually explicit material clearly not meant for kids," according to Neil Blair, an attorney for her publisher. The attorneys have sent cease and desist letters to sites that host adult material.
Potter fan fiction has a large following in the slash fiction genre, stories which feature romantic or sexual relationships (shipping), usually portraying homosexual pairings. Famous pairings include Harry with Draco Malfoy or Cedric Diggory, and Remus Lupin with Sirius Black. Harry Potter slash has eroded some of the antipathy towards underage sexuality in the wider slash fandom.
Tracey "T" Proctor, a moderator of FictionAlley.org, a Harry Potter fan fiction website, said 'I don't really get into the children's aspect of it, but rather the teachers, the adult characters. I read someone once who said, "If she didn't want us fantasizing about her characters, she needs to stop having these handsome men portraying them." And that's the truth: It's very hard not to look at Alan Rickman [Professor Severus Snape] and Jason Isaacs [Lucius Malfoy] and not get erotic thoughts. I have some fan fiction at Fiction Alley. You want to write stories about the characters that J.K. is not writing, about their love lives that you don't see in the book.'
In November 2006, Jason Isaacs, who played Lucius Malfoy in the Potter films, said that he had read fan fiction about his character and gets "a huge kick out of the more far-out stuff."

Non fiction
With the rise in popularity of the Harry Potter series and its associated fandom, a range of non-fiction works emerged, including cookbooks such as The Official Harry Potter Cookbook, filmmaking guides such as Harry Potter Page to Screen, and analytical works such as The Magical Worlds of Harry Potter, which explores the series’ mythological and literary influences. Media coverage at the time noted that some of these publications were produced to capitalize on the franchise’s success, including J. K. Rowling: The Wizard Behind Harry Potter, which was a New York Times bestseller but described in reviews as derivative and lacking original research.

Discussion
Prior to the publication of Deathly Hallows, much of the energy of the Potter fandom was devoted to speculation and debate about upcoming plot and character developments. To this end, clues from the earlier books and deliberate hints from J. K. Rowling (in interviews and on her website) were heavily scrutinised by fans. In particular, fan essays were published on websites such as Mugglenet (the "world famous editorials"), the Harry Potter Lexicon and The Leaky Cauldron (Scribbulus project) among others: offering theories, comment and analysis on all aspects of the series. The Yahoo discussion list Harry Potter for Grown Ups (founded in 1999) is also noteworthy for its detailed criticism and discussion of the Harry Potter books.
Speculation intensified with the July 2005 publication of Half-Blood Prince and the detailed post-publication interview given by Rowling to Mugglenet and The Leaky Cauldron. Notably, DumbledoreIsNotDead.com sought to understand the events of the sixth book in a different way. (Rowling later confirmed, however – on 2 August 2006 – that Dumbledore was, in fact, dead, humorously apologising to the website as she did so.) A collection of essays, Who Killed Albus Dumbledore?: What Really Happened in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince? Six Expert Harry Potter Detectives Examine the Evidence, was published by Zossima Press in November 2006. Contributors included the Christian author John Granger and Joyce Odell of Red Hen Publications, whose own website contains numerous essays on the Potterverse and fandom itself.
In 2006, in advance of the arrival of the seventh Potter novel, five MuggleNet staff members co-authored the reference book Mugglenet.Com's What Will Happen in Harry Potter 7: Who Lives, Who Dies, Who Falls in Love and How Will the Adventure Finally End, an anthology of unofficial fan predictions; while early in 2007, Leaky launched HarryPotterSeven.com, featuring "roundups and predictions from some of the most knowledgeable fans online" (including Steve Vander Ark of the Lexicon). Late additions to the fan scene (prior to the publication of Deathly Hallows) included BeyondHogwarts.com (the successor to DumbledoreIsNotDead.com), which billed itself as "the only ongoing online Harry Potter fan conference", as well as Book7.co.uk, which offered a hypothetical "evidence-based synopsis" of the seventh novel. To this day, debate and reaction to the novels and films continues on web forums (including Mugglenet's Chamber of Secrets community and TLC's Leaky Lounge).

Fan film and television

A 2018 Italian fan-made prequel to the series, Voldemort: Origins of the Heir, depicts the story of Tom Riddle's rise to power. The teaser trailer was released on in June 2017, receiving more than thirty million views in less than 48 hours on Facebook. The full movie was later released on YouTube on 13 January 2018, receiving over twelve million views in ten days.
Hermione Granger and the Quarter Life Crisis is an online TV series focused on Hermione Granger's life after Hogwarts. In the show, Granger, cast as a black woman played by Ashley Romans, has broken up with Ron Weasley and moved to Los Angeles to reevaluate her life and choices.
A 2020 Vulture Works' fan-made film, James Potter and the Heir of the Sword, starts with the epilogue of Deathly Hallows. Jealous of the relationship between Scorpius Malfoy and Albus Severus Potter, Albus' brother James is in conflict with Scorpius to be the best brother, while the prophecy of King Arthur's Monster, which occurs every 100 years, hits Hogwarts.

Conventions

Fan conventions have been another way that the fandom has congregated. Conventions such as Prophecy, LeakyCon, Infinitus, Azkatraz, and Ascendio have maintained an academic emphasis, hosting professional keynote speakers as well as keeping the atmosphere playful and friendly. They have featured prominent members of the fandom such as Jennie Levine, owner of SugarQuill.net (Phoenix Rising, 2007); Melissa Anelli, current webmaster of The Leaky Cauldron (Phoenix Rising, 2007; Leakycon, 2009/2011/2012); Sue Upton, former Senior Editor of the Leaky Cauldron (Prophecy, 2007); Heidi Tandy, founder of Fiction Alley (Prophecy, 2007), Paul and Joe DeGeorge of the wizard rock band Harry and the Potters (along with several other more well-known Wizard Rock bands such as The Remus Lupins, The Parselmouths, Ministry of Magic, and The Whomping Willows) (see below) (Prophecy, 2007; Leakycon, 2009/2011/2012), Andrew Slack, founder of The Harry Potter Alliance, and StarKid, the cast of the fan made musicals "A Very Potter Musical", "A Very Potter Sequel", and "A Very Potter Senior Year".
Still, the conventions try to attract the fandom with other fun-filled Potter-centric activities, often more interactive, such as wizarding chess, water Quidditch, a showing of the Harry Potter films, or local cultural immersions. Live podcasts are often recorded during these events, and live Wizard Rock shows have become a fairly large part of recent conventions. Members of the Harry Potter cast have been brought in for the conferences; actors such as Evanna Lynch (Luna Lovegood) and Christopher Rankin (Percy Weasley), along with several others, have appeared to give live Q&A sessions and keynote presentations about the series.
In addition to fandom-specific programming, LeakyCon 2011 and 2012 have hosted LitDays (as well as incorporating the many fandoms Harry Potter fans have branched into since the ending of the series). LitDays are full of programming with authors, agents, and editors. A few key examples are John Green, author of the young adult novels The Fault in Our Stars and Looking for Alaska; Scott Westerfeld, author of the Uglies series and Leviathan; and David Levithan, author of Nick & Norah's Infinite Playlist and The Lover's Dictionary.
These conventions sometimes incorporate the themed area The Wizarding World of Harry Potter into their itinerary, located at Universal Islands of Adventure in Orlando, Florida and at other Universal Studios theme parks around the world. At the Harry Potter fan conventions Infinitus 2010, LeakyCon 2011, and Ascendio 2012, special events were held in the Wizarding World area at Islands of Adventure, including after-hours events for convention attendees who purchased tickets to experience and explore the park by themselves. The events also included talks given by creators of the themed area, free food and butterbeer, and live wizard rock shows.

Festivals
In addition to conventions, Harry Potter fandom has further expanded to town festivals, including the Chestertown Harry Potter Festival (Maryland), the Chestnut Hill Harry Potter Festival (Philadelphia),  Edgerton's Harry Potter Festival (Wisconsin), and the Spellbound Festival (Michigan, 2016; Ontario, 2018; New York, 2019), among others. The Chestnut Hill event had been held annually for seven years until 2018 when it was rebranded under a more general "Witches and Wizards" theme, following a cease and desist letter from Warner Bros.

"Ship debates"

In the fandom, the word "ship" and its derivatives like "shipping" or "shipper" are commonly used as shorthand for the word "relationship". The Harry Potter series generated ship debates with supporters of the prospective relationship between Harry Potter and his close female friend Hermione Granger at odds with supporters of Hermione ending up instead with Ron Weasley, close friend of both, as well as  supporters of Harry ending up with Ginny Weasley, Ron's younger sister.
An interview with Rowling conducted by fansite webmasters Emerson Spartz (MuggleNet) and Melissa Anelli (The Leaky Cauldron) shortly after the book's release proved to be controversial. During the interview, Spartz commented that Harry/Hermione shippers were "delusional", to which Rowling chuckled, though making it clear that she did not share the sentiment and that the Harry/Hermione fans were "still valued members of her readership". This incident resulted in an uproar among Harry/Hermione shippers. The uproar was loud enough to merit an article in the San Francisco Chronicle.

Rowling's attitude towards the shipping phenomenon has varied between amused and bewildered to frustrated, as she revealed in that interview. She explained:Well, you see, I'm a relative newcomer to the world of shipping, because for a long time, I didn't go on the net and look up Harry Potter. A long time. Occasionally I had to, because there were weird news stories or something that I would have to go and check, because I was supposed to have said something I hadn't said. I had never gone and looked at fan sites, and then one day I did and oh - my - god. Five hours later or something, I get up from the computer shaking slightly [all laugh]. 'What is going on?' And it was during that first mammoth session that I met the shippers, and it was a most extraordinary thing. I had no idea there was this huge underworld seething beneath me.
In a later posting on MuggleNet, Spartz explained:My comments weren't directed at the shippers who acknowledged that Harry/Hermione was a long shot but loved the idea of them together. It was directed at the "militant" shippers who insisted that there was overwhelming canon proof and that everyone else was too blind to see it. You were delusional; you saw what you wanted to see and you have no one to blame for that but yourselves.
Rowling has continued to make references, less humorous and more, to the severity of the shipper conflicts. In one instance she has joked about trying to think of ways of proving to Emerson, when inviting him for the aforementioned interview, that it was really her and not "some angry Harry/Hermione shipper trying to lure him down a dark alleyway";
Rowling stated in a 2014 interview with Wonderland magazine that she thought that realistically Ron and Hermione had "too much fundamental incompatibility." She stated that Ron and Hermione were written together "as a form of wish fulfillment" as way to reconcile a relationship she herself was once in. She went on to say that perhaps with marriage counselling Ron and Hermione would have been all right. She also went on to say in a talk at Exeter University that Harry's love for Ginny is true, thereby denying any potential canon relationship between Harry and Hermione.

Other relationships
On a less intense scale, other relationships have been doted upon in the fandom from suggestive hints or explicit statements throughout canon, such as those between Draco Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson, Harry's parents James Potter and Lily Evans, Rubeus Hagrid and Olympe Maxime, or Percy Weasley and Penelope Clearwater, or Rose Granger-Weasley and Scorpius Malfoy. A potential relationship between Neville Longbottom and Luna Lovegood was originally dispelled by Rowling, though she later retracted this and said she noticed a slight attraction between them in Deathly Hallows.
Some couples, besides Harry and Ginny and Ron and Hermione, have been explicitly stated in the series: Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour are married in Deathly Hallows after dating throughout Half-Blood Prince. In Half-Blood Prince, Nymphadora Tonks keeps her feelings for Remus Lupin to herself, but remains depressed when he refuses her advances; he feels that his being a werewolf would not create a safe relationship. Tonks professes her love for him at the end of the book, and she and Lupin have been married by the beginning of Deathly Hallows and have a son 'Teddy' later in the book. Other couples, such as Harry and Draco or Lupin and Sirius Black, are favourites among fans who read fan fiction about them. There is also debate about Lily and Severus vs. James.

Roleplaying games

Roleplaying is a central feature of the Harry Potter fandom. There are two primary forms: internet-based roleplay and live-action roleplay, or LARP.
LARPing often involves re-enacting or creating an original Quidditch team. Match rules and style of play vary among fandom events, but they are generally kept as close as possible to the sport envisioned by Rowling. The 2006 Lumos symposium included a Quidditch tournament played in water. More common are ground-based games such as the handball style developed by USA Team Handball and featured at the MuggleNet-sponsored Spellbound event, as well as the Muggle Quidditch style played intramurally at Millikin University (at left). This version of quidditch has grown past intramural play, is far from LARPing, and has an international governing body, the IQA.
Internet-based roleplay tries to simulate the Hogwarts experience. Many sites are forum-based, emphasizing taking classes taught by staff members in order for the players to earn points for their respective houses. Some internet-based roleplay sites go more in depth into canon and storylines, and do not specifically rely on posting as the only method for gaining house points while others have expanded to include activities such as Quidditch, dueling, and board-wide plots. Hogwarts-school.net (est. 2000), for example, is a forum-based roleplaying game which allows players to take classes, engage in extracurriculars, and also has many options for adult characters in St. Mungos, the Daily Prophet, and the Ministry of Magic.
2007 saw the launch of World of Hogwarts, a completely free MMORPG Harry Potter roleplaying game in Second Life, set ten years after the Battle of Hogwarts. Here, roleplayers can create an avatar and interact with other students, attend lessons organized by other roleplayers, play Quidditch, sit for their exams, earn and lose points for their house, visit Hogsmeade, Diagon Alley and the Forbidden Forest, get a job at the Ministry of Magic, explore several secret passages within the castle, and even immerse themselves into intricate and well-composed storyline plots that have, through time, grown into the canon rules of the game.
A website created by ISO Interactive, called the Chamber of Chat is a free online interactive virtual world under a MMO format. Although not a full MMORPG format, Chamber of Chat is set up with 3D virtual chatrooms and avatars where fans can socially interact with each other in Pictionary and Harry Potter Trivial games or participate in discussion groups about Harry Potter or Film media or perform plays as a theater group to other fans as audience. They hold special community event such as Harry Potters Birthday or Halloween and have seasonal house competitions.  Fans are able to create their own avatars, collect or be rewarded coins to purchase furniture items for their own "clubhouse". However, the website emphasizes more social interaction between fans' avatars to stimulate the Hogwarts student experience. "Chamber of Chat is a graphical Social Virtual World with a few Facebook plug-ins. The Harry Potter Virtual World is designed for fans. This give users the feeling that they are interacting in the actual 3D world. You can hang out with other students, relax in the common room, mingle at the pub, play games like Pictionary and even download cool looking wallpapers."
On 19 April 2007, Chamber of Chat was awarded Adobe Site of the day. Chamber of chat has also been awarded a place among the SmartFoxServer Showcase. "Chamber of Chat is an MMO community inspired to the magic worlds of the Harry Potter saga. The application is a great example of integration between Director/Shockwave (client) and SmartFoxServer PRO.". Chamber of Chat has been a long time associated branch of The Leaky network and although as part of the network with The Leaky Cauldron, Pottercast and "Ask Peeves" search engine, it was ranked number two behind Indiana Jones's TheRaider.Net out of 25 essential fansites of "The Best of the Web" by Entertainment Weekly in December 2007.
Other sites use modified versions of phpBB that allow for a certain level of interactive roleplaying and are what is commonly referred to as "forum-based roleplaying". Interactive gaming can include player versus player features, a form of currency for making purchases in stores, and non-player characters such as monsters that must be fought to gain levels and experience points. However, these features are more prevalent in games that are not forum-based. Advancement in such games is usually dependent on live chat, multiplayer cooperation, and fighting as opposed to taking classes or simply posting to earn points for one's "house"; like at Hogwarts, players in forum-based games are sometimes sorted into a different group distinguishing different values within a person.

Landmarks tours

Some travel agencies have organised a subdivision to create tours specifically highlighting iconic landmarks in the world of Harry Potter. HP Fan Trips, offered by Beyond Boundaries Travel since 2004 in conjunction with fan site HPANA, was designed by and for fans of the series, and tours noteworthy Potter-related locations in the United Kingdom. Since 2004, they have exclusively chartered steam locomotive #5972 Olton Hall, the locomotive used in the films as the Hogwarts Express, as well as the carriages labeled as such and seen in the movies. The travel agency Your Man in Europe began hosting Magical Tours in 2006, in conjunction with fan site MuggleNet. They offer four different tours through England and Scotland.

These tours primarily feature locations used for shooting in the films, though some trips include a Chinese restaurant in Edinburgh, which was once Nicholson's Cafe, where Rowling wrote much of the manuscript for Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, and Edinburgh Castle, where Rowling read from the sixth book on the night of its release to an audience of children. Filming locations visited include Alnwick Castle, where some exterior locations of Hogwarts are shot, places in Fort William, Scotland; Glen Nevis, Scotland; the Glenfinnan viaduct; Christ Church Cathedral in Oxford and the Cloisters located within New College, Oxford.

Wizard rock

Wizard music (sometimes shorthanded as Wrock) is a musical movement dating from 2000 in Massachusetts with Harry and the Potters, though it has grown internationally and has expanded to at least 750 bands. Wrock bands mostly consist of young musicians that write and perform songs about the Harry Potter universe, and these songs are often written from the point of view of a particular character in the books, usually the character who features in the band's name. If they are performing live, they may also cosplay, or dress as, that character.
In contrast to mainstream bands that have some songs incorporating literary references among a wider repertoire of music (notably Led Zeppelin to The Lord of the Rings), wizard rock bands take their inspiration entirely from the Harry Potter universe. In preserving the promotion of reading, too, bands like to perform in libraries, bookstores, and schools. The bands have also performed at the fan conventions.

Documentaries

We Are Wizards
We Are Wizards is a feature-length documentary by Josh Koury about the Harry Potter fandom. It features Wizard rock bands Harry and the Potters, Draco and the Malfoys, The Hungarian Horntails, and The Whomping Willows. The film also features Heather Lawver, Melissa Anelli, and Brad Neely. We Are Wizards had its World Premiere at the SXSW film festival in 2008, then traveled to 20 film festivals worldwide.  The film opened theatrically in 5 cities on 14 November 2008.  The film can be seen on Hulu.com, and DVD.

The Fandom Fan Diaries: Wizard's Gone W!ld
The Fandom Fan Diaries: Wizard's Gone W!ld is a documentary web series that is based on fandom submissions. The producers Miranda Marshall and Amy Henderson starting accepting video submissions in early March 2009 and plan to accept them through 2013. WiZarDs Gone W!LD is affiliated with The Fan Book of HP Fans, yet another fandom project based on submissions that has recently extended its submission deadline date.

The Wizard Rockumentary
The Wizard Rockumentary: A Movie about Rocking and Rowling is a feature documentary chronicling the rise of Harry Potter tribute bands. Producers Megan and Mallory Schuyler travelled around the United States compiling interviews and concert footage of bands including Harry and the Potters, Draco and the Malfoys, The Remus Lupins, The Whomping Willow, The Moaning Myrtles, Roonil Wazlib, Snidget, and The Hermione Crookshanks Experience. The film was released in April 2008 and has screened in libraries around the country. The producers are currently negotiating broadcast and home video rights.

Proyecto Patronus
Project Patronus: Magic of a Generation (Proyecto Patronus: la magia de una generación) is a Spanish documentary based on the Harry Potter franchise. It covers the franchise's influence on a generation of young people, and deals with the multiple values, such as friendship, love, courage and respect, which are reflected in the books. Numerous professionals in psychology and pedagogy who have studied the significance of the franchise appear. The film was released in 2016 and has screened in film festivals around Spain.

Health
In 2003, Dr. Howard J. Bennett coined the term "Hogwarts headache" in a letter to the New England Journal of Medicine shortly after the release of the longest book in the series, Order of the Phoenix. He described it as a mild condition, a tension headache possibly accompanied by neck or wrist pains, caused by unhealthily long reading sessions of Harry Potter. The symptoms resolved themselves within days of finishing the book. His prescription of taking reading breaks was rejected by two of the patients on which he discovered this headache.
Researchers at John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford found in 2005 that the admission rate of children with traumatic injuries to the city's ERs plummeted on the publication weekends of both Order of the Phoenix and Half-Blood Prince. This was due to the volume of children reading Harry Potter rather than engaging in riskier outdoor activities, such as riding of bicycles and scooters, climbing trees or playing sports. The study was led by Dr. Stephen Gwilym whose paper "hypothesized that there is a place for a committee of safety-conscious, talented writers who could produce high quality books for the purpose of injury prevention," noting a potential problem with this strategy: "Obviously, if children are always in reading books and not outside getting exercise, there is a long-term risk of obesity, rickets and lack of sunlight."

Decline
Some Harry Potter fans have been voicing concerns about Rowling's political views since at least the spring of 2018. In 2020, fan websites The Leaky Cauldron and MuggleNet said they would no longer provide links to Rowling's website or use photos of the author, in light of the various controversies around Rowling's views on transgender people.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter (film series)

Harry Potter is a film series based on the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. The series was produced and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures and consists of eight fantasy films, beginning with Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001) and culminating with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2011). A spin-off prequel series started with Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016), marking the beginning of the Wizarding World shared media franchise.
An American and British co-production, the series was mainly produced by David Heyman, and stars Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, and Emma Watson as the three leading characters: Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger, respectively. Four directors worked on the series: Chris Columbus, Alfonso Cuarón, Mike Newell, and David Yates. Michael Goldenberg wrote the screenplay for Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2007). The remaining films' screenplays were written by Steve Kloves. Production took place over ten years, with the main story arc following Harry's quest to overcome his arch-enemy Lord Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes).
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the seventh and final novel in the series, was adapted into two feature-length parts. Part 1 was released in November 2010, and Part 2 was released in July 2011.
Deathly Hallows – Part 2 is among the 50 highest-grossing films of all time—at 24th-highest, grossing $1.3 billion. It is the fourth-highest-grossing film series, with $7.7 billion in worldwide receipts.

Origins
In late 1997, film producer David Heyman's London offices received a copy of the first book in what would become J.K. Rowling's series of seven Harry Potter novels. The book, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was relegated to a low-priority bookshelf, where it was discovered by a secretary who read it and gave it to Heyman with a positive review. Consequently, Heyman, who had originally disliked "the rubbish title", read the book himself. Highly impressed by Rowling's work, he began the process that led to one of the most successful cinematic franchises of all time.
Heyman's enthusiasm led to Rowling's 1999 sale of the film rights for the first four Harry Potter books to Warner Bros. Pictures for a reported £1 million. A demand Rowling made was that the principal cast be kept strictly British and Irish wherever possible, such as Richard Harris as Dumbledore, allowing for casting of French and Eastern European actors in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire where characters from the book are specified as such. Rowling was hesitant to sell the rights because she "didn't want to give them control over the rest of the story" by selling the rights to the characters, which would have enabled Warner Bros. to make non-author-written sequels.
Although Steven Spielberg initially negotiated to direct the first film, the deal was not finalized. Spielberg wanted to combine the story of the novels and make an animated film with his DreamWorks Animation studio. Warner Bros. was against both ideas, wanting to produce individual live-action films for each novel. In the "Rubbish Bin" section of her website, Rowling wrote that she had no role in choosing directors for the films, affirming, "Anyone who thinks I could (or would) have 'veto-ed' him [Spielberg] needs their Quick-Quotes Quill serviced."
After Spielberg left, conversations began with other directors, including Chris Columbus, Jonathan Demme, Terry Gilliam, Mike Newell, Alan Parker, Wolfgang Petersen, Rob Reiner, Tim Robbins, Brad Silberling, and Peter Weir. Petersen and Reiner both pulled out of the running in March 2000. It was then narrowed down to Columbus, Gilliam, Parker, and Silberling. Rowling's first choice was Gilliam. On 28 March 2000, Columbus was appointed as director of the film, with Warner Bros. citing his work on other family films such as Home Alone and Mrs. Doubtfire as influences for their decision.

Harry Potter is the kind of timeless literary achievement that comes around once in a lifetime. Since the books have generated such a passionate following across the world, it was important to us to find a director that has an affinity for both children and magic. I can't think of anyone more ideally suited for this job than Chris [Columbus].
Steve Kloves was selected to write the screenplay for the first film. He described adapting the book as "tough" since it did not "lend itself to adaptation as well as the next two books". Kloves was sent a "raft" of synopses of books proposed as film adaptations, with Harry Potter being the only one that jumped out at him. He went out and bought the book, becoming an instant fan. When speaking to Warner Bros. he stated that the film had to be British and true to the characters. David Heyman was confirmed to produce the film. Rowling received a large amount of creative control for the film, an arrangement that Columbus did not mind.
Warner Bros. had initially planned to release the first film over the 4 July 2001 weekend, making for such a short production window that several of the originally proposed directors had withdrawn themselves from contention. Eventually, due to time constraints, the date was put back to 16 November 2001.

Casting the roles of Harry, Ron, and Hermione

In 2000, after a seven-month search, lead actor Daniel Radcliffe was discovered by producer David Heyman and writer Steve Kloves seated just behind them in a theatre. In Heyman's own words, "There sitting behind me was this boy with these big blue eyes. It was Dan Radcliffe. I remember my first impressions: He was curious and funny and so energetic. There was real generosity too, and sweetness. But at the same time he was really voracious and with hunger for knowledge of whatever kind."
Radcliffe had already established himself as an actor in the 1999 BBC television production of David Copperfield in which he played the title role's childhood years. Heyman persuaded Radcliffe's parents to allow him to audition for the part of Harry Potter, which involved Radcliffe being filmed. Rowling was enthusiastic after viewing Radcliffe's filmed test, saying she didn't think there was a better choice for the part of Harry Potter.
Also in 2000, the then-unknown British actors Emma Watson and Rupert Grint were selected from thousands of auditioning children to play the roles of Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley, respectively. Their only previous acting experience was in school plays. Grint was eleven years old and Watson ten at the time they were cast.
Los Angeles Times writer Geoff Boucher, who conducted the above-mentioned interview with Heyman, added that the casting of the three major roles "is especially impressive in hindsight. The trio's selection was arguably one of the best show-business decisions over the past decade ... they have shown admirable grace and steadiness in the face of teen superstardom."

Production
Filming for the series began at Leavesden Studios, Hertfordshire, England, in September 2000 and ended in December 2010, with post-production on the final film lasting until summer 2011. Leavesden Studios was the main base for filming Harry Potter, and it opened to the public as a studio tour in 2012, renamed as Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden.

David Heyman produced all the films in the series with his production company Heyday Films. David Barron joined the series as an executive producer on Chamber of Secrets and Goblet of Fire and was later appointed producer on the last four films. Chris Columbus was an executive producer on the first two films alongside Mark Radcliffe and Michael Barnathan of 1492 Pictures, but he became a producer on the third film alongside Heyman and Radcliffe. Other executive producers include Tanya Seghatchian and Lionel Wigram. J. K. Rowling, author of the series, was asked to become a producer on Goblet of Fire but declined. She subsequently accepted the role on the two-part Deathly Hallows.
Warner Bros. adapted the seventh and final novel in the series, Deathly Hallows, into two cinematic parts. The two parts were filmed back-to-back from early 2009 to summer 2010, with the completion of reshoots taking place on 21 December 2010; this marked the end of filming Harry Potter. Heyman stated that Deathly Hallows was "shot as one film" but released in two feature-length parts.
Tim Burke, the visual effects supervisor of the series, said of the production on Harry Potter, "It was this huge family; I think there were over 700 people working at Leavesden, an industry in itself." David Heyman said, "When the first film opened, no way did I think we'd make eight films. That didn't seem feasible until after we'd done the fourth." Nisha Parti, the production consultant on the first film, said that Heyman "made the first film very much the way he felt the studio Warner Bros. wanted to make it". After the film's success, Heyman was given "more freedom".
One of the aims of the filmmakers from the beginning of production was to develop the maturity of the films. Chris Columbus stated, "We realised that these movies would get progressively darker. Again, we didn't know how dark but we realised that as the kids get older, the movies get a little edgier and darker." This transpired with the succeeding three directors who would work on the series in the following years, with the films beginning to deal with issues such as death, betrayal, prejudice, and political corruption as the series developed narratively and thematically.

Directors
After Chris Columbus had finished working on Philosopher's Stone, he was hired to direct Chamber of Secrets. The production started within a week after the release of the first film. Columbus was set to direct all entries in the series, but he did not want to return for Prisoner of Azkaban, claiming he was "burned out". He moved to the position of producer, while Alfonso Cuarón was approached for the role of director. He was initially nervous about directing the instalment since he had not read any of the books or seen the films. After reading the series, he changed his mind and signed on to direct since he had immediately connected to the story.

Because Cuarón decided not to direct the fourth instalment, Goblet of Fire, a new director had to be selected. Mike Newell was chosen to direct the film, but he declined to do so for the next film, Order of the Phoenix, which was given to David Yates, who also directed Half-Blood Prince and both parts of Deathly Hallows, becoming the only director to helm more than one film since Columbus.
Columbus said his vision for the first two films was of a "golden storybook, an old-fashioned look", while Cuarón changed the visual tone of the series, desaturated the colour palette, and expanded the landscape around Hogwarts. Newell decided to direct the fourth film as a "paranoid thriller", while Yates wanted to "bring a sense of jeopardy and character to the world". Cuarón, Newell, and Yates have said that their challenge was striking a balance between making the films according to their individual vision, while working within a cinematic world already established by Columbus.
Heyman commented on the "generosity of the directors" by revealing that "Chris spent time with Alfonso, Alfonso spent time with Mike and Mike spent time with David, showing him an early cut of the film, talking through what it means to be a director and how they went about [making the films]." He also said, "I suppose Chris Columbus was the most conservative choice from the studio's point of view. But he expressed real passion." Producer Tanya Seghatchian said they were "more adventurous" in choosing a director for the third film and went straight to Cuarón. Newell became the first British director of the series when he was chosen for the fourth film; Newell was considered to direct the first film before he dropped out. Yates directed the final films after Heyman thought him capable of handling the edgy, emotional, and political material of the later novels.
All the directors have been supportive of each other. Columbus praised the character development in the films, while Cuarón admired the "quiet poetry" of Yates' films. Mike Newell noted that each director had a different heroism, and Yates views the first four films "respectfully and enjoy[s] them". Radcliffe said Yates "took the charm of the films that Chris made and the visual flair of everything that Alfonso did and the thoroughly British, bombastic nature of the film directed by Mike Newell" and added "his own sense" of realism.

Scripts

Steve Kloves wrote the screenplays for all but the fifth film, which was penned by Michael Goldenberg. Kloves had direct assistance from J.K. Rowling, though she allowed him what he described as "tremendous elbow room". Rowling asked Kloves to remain faithful to the spirit of the books; thus, the plot and tone of each film and its corresponding book are virtually the same, albeit with some changes and omissions for purposes of cinematic style, time, and budget constraints. Goldenberg also received input from Rowling during his adaptation of the fifth novel; Goldenberg was originally considered to adapt the first novel before the studio chose Kloves.
In a 2010 interview, Heyman briefly explained the book-to-film transition. He commented on Rowling's involvement in the series, stating that she understood that "books and films are different" and was "the best support" a producer could have. Rowling had overall approval on the scripts, which were viewed and discussed by the director and the producers. Heyman also said that Kloves was the "key voice" in the process of adapting the novels and that certain aspects from the books needed to have been excluded from the scripts due to the filmmakers' decision to keep the main focus on Harry's journey as a character, which would ultimately give the films a defined structure. Heyman mentioned that some fans "don't necessarily understand the adaptation process" and that the filmmakers would have loved to "have everything" from the books in the films but noted that it was not possible since they had "neither time nor cinematic structure" to do so. He finished by saying that adapting a novel to the screen is "a really considered process".
Because the films were being made as the novels were being published, the filmmakers had no idea of the story's outcome until the release of the final novel in 2007. Kloves spoke of his relationship with Rowling when adapting the novels by saying, "The thing is about Jo, which is remarkable for someone who had no experience with the filmmaking process, was her intuition. We had a conversation the very first day I met her where she said, 'I know the movies can't be the books ... because I know what's coming and it's impossible to fully dramatise on screen what I'm going to write. But I just ask you to be true to the characters; that's all I care about.'" Kloves also said, "I don't know what compelled me to say this [to Rowling], but I said, 'I've just got to warn you my favourite character is not Harry. My favourite character is Hermione.' And I think for some weird reason, from that moment on, she sort of trusted me."

Cast and crew

Aside from the three lead actors, other notable cast members include Robbie Coltrane as Rubeus Hagrid, Tom Felton as Draco Malfoy, Alan Rickman as Severus Snape, and Dame Maggie Smith as Minerva McGonagall. Richard Harris, who played the role of Professor Albus Dumbledore, died on 25 October 2002, causing the role to be re-cast to Michael Gambon for Prisoner of Azkaban. Heyman and Cuarón chose Gambon to portray Dumbledore, which he did for all succeeding films.
Notable recurring cast members include Helena Bonham Carter as Bellatrix Lestrange, Warwick Davis as Filius Flitwick, Ralph Fiennes as Lord Voldemort, Brendan Gleeson as Alastor Moody, Richard Griffiths as Vernon Dursley, Jason Isaacs as Lucius Malfoy, Harry Melling as Dudley Dursley, Gary Oldman as Sirius Black, Fiona Shaw as Petunia Dursley, Timothy Spall as Peter Pettigrew, David Thewlis as Remus Lupin, Emma Thompson as Sybill Trelawney, Mark Williams as Arthur Weasley, and Julie Walters as Molly Weasley.
The series has seen many returning crew members from various departments, including Tim Burke, visual effects supervisor; Peter Doyle, digital film colourist; Nick Dudman, make-up and creature effects designer; David Holmes, stunt double; Amanda Knight, make-up artist; Stephenie McMillan, set designer; Greg Powell, stunt coordinator; Jany Temime, costume designer; and Fiona Weir, casting director.

Set design

The production designer for all eight films is Stuart Craig. Assisted by Stephenie McMillan, Craig has created iconic sets pieces including the Ministry of Magic, the Chamber of Secrets, Malfoy Manor, and the layout for the CGI Horcrux Cave. Because the novels were being published as the films were being made, Craig was required to rebuild some sets for future films and alter the design of Hogwarts.
He said, "In the early days, every time you saw the exterior of Hogwarts, it was a physical miniature", which was made by craftsmen and occupied a large sound stage. "We ended up with a profile of how Hogwarts looked, a skyline that actually I didn't design, and it wasn't always satisfactory, and as all the novels got written and movies got made there were new requirements [for buildings]. The [Astronomy Tower] definitely wasn't there originally, and so we were able to add that substantial piece. And in the last film, we needed an arena for the battle for Hogwarts – the big courtyard outside doubled in size, and if you look at the first movie it wasn't there at all. There were quite some liberties taken with the continuity of Hogwarts." In the last film, Craig used a digital model instead of a miniature to "embrace the latest technology".
On the method of creating the sets, Craig said he often started by sketching ideas onto a blank sheet of paper. Stephenie McMillan also said that "each film always had plenty of new challenges", citing the changes in visual style between directors and cinematographers as an example, along with the developing story in the novels. Due to J.K. Rowling's descriptions of various settings in the novels, Craig noted his "responsibility was to place it together".

Craig commented on his experience working in the studio environment: "I'm the production designer, but on a big movie like Harry Potter I may be responsible for 30 to 35 people; from the supervising art director, and a team of art directors and assistants, to draughtsmen and junior draughtsmen, and then on to model makers, sculptors and scenic artists." He said, "Ten years ago, all the Harry Potter drawings were done in pencil. I would take my roughs and plans and sections and give them to a professional architectural illustrator, who would create concept art using pencil and colour wash on watercolour paper." He said the process changed slightly throughout the years due to, what he called, the "digital revolution" of making films.
When filming of the series was completed, some of Craig's sets had to be rebuilt or transported for them to be displayed at the Warner Bros. studio tour.

Cinematography
Six directors of photography worked on the series: John Seale on the first film, Roger Pratt on the second and fourth, Michael Seresin on the third, Sławomir Idziak on the fifth, Bruno Delbonnel on the sixth, and Eduardo Serra on the seventh and eighth. Delbonnel was considered to return for both parts of Deathly Hallows, but he declined, stating that he was "scared of repeating" himself. Delbonnel's cinematography in Half-Blood Prince gained the series its only Academy Award nomination for Best Cinematography. As the series progressed, each cinematographer faced the challenge of shooting and lighting older sets (which had been around since the first few films) in unique and different ways. Chris Columbus said the series' vivid colouring decreased as each film was made.
Michael Seresin commented on the change of visual style from the first two films to Prisoner of Azkaban: "The lighting is moodier, with more shadowing and cross-lighting." Seresin and Alfonso Cuarón moved away from the strongly coloured and brightly lit cinematography of the first two films, with dimmer lighting and a more muted colour palette being utilised for the succeeding five films. After comparing a range of digital cameras with 35 mm film, Bruno Delbonnel decided to shoot the sixth movie, Half-Blood Prince, on film rather than the increasingly popular digital format. This decision was kept for the two-part Deathly Hallows with Eduardo Serra, who said that he preferred to work with film because it was "more technically accurate and dependable".
Because the majority of Deathly Hallows takes place in various settings away from Hogwarts, David Yates wanted to "shake things up" by using different photographic techniques such as using hand-held cameras and very wide camera lenses. Eduardo Serra said, "Sometimes we are combining elements shot by the main unit, a second unit, and the visual effects unit. You have to know what is being captured – colours, contrast, et cetera – with mathematical precision." He noted that with Stuart Craig's "amazing sets and the story", the filmmakers could not "stray too far from the look of the previous Harry Potter films".

Editing
Along with continuous changes in cinematographers, there have been five film editors to work in post-production on the series: Richard Francis-Bruce edited the first instalment, Peter Honess the second, Steven Weisberg the third, Mick Audsley the fourth, and Mark Day films five through eight.

Music

The Harry Potter series has had four composers. John Williams scored the first three films: Philosopher's Stone, Chamber of Secrets, and Prisoner of Azkaban. Due to a busy 2002 schedule, Williams brought in William Ross to adapt and conduct the score for Chamber of Secrets. Williams also composed "Hedwig's Theme", the series' leitmotif which appears in all eight films.
After Williams left the series to pursue other projects, Patrick Doyle scored the fourth entry, Goblet of Fire, which was directed by Mike Newell, with whom Doyle had worked previously. In 2006, Nicholas Hooper started work on the score to Order of the Phoenix, reuniting with director David Yates. Hooper also composed the soundtrack to Half-Blood Prince but decided not to return for the final two films.
In January 2010, Alexandre Desplat was confirmed to compose the score for Deathly Hallows – Part 1. The film's orchestration started in the summer with Conrad Pope, the orchestrator on the first three Harry Potter films, collaborating with Desplat. Pope commented that the music "reminds one of the old days". Desplat returned to score Deathly Hallows – Part 2 in 2011.
Yates stated that he wanted Williams to return to the series for the final instalment, but their schedules did not align due to the urgent demand for a rough cut of the film. The final recording sessions for Harry Potter took place on 27 May 2011 at Abbey Road Studios with the London Symphony Orchestra, Desplat and orchestrator Conrad Pope.
Doyle, Hooper and Desplat introduced their own personal themes to their respective soundtracks, while keeping a few of Williams' themes.

Visual effects
There have been many visual effects companies that work on the Harry Potter series. Some of these include Rising Sun Pictures, Sony Pictures Imageworks, Double Negative, Cinesite, Framestore, and Industrial Light & Magic. The latter three have worked on all the films in the series, while Double Negative and Rising Sun Pictures began their commitments with Prisoner of Azkaban and Goblet of Fire, respectively. Framestore contributed by developing many memorable creatures and sequences to the series. Cinesite was involved in producing both miniature and digital effects for the films.
Producer David Barron said that "Harry Potter created the UK effects industry as we know it. On the first film, all the complicated visual effects were done on the [US] west coast. But on the second, we took a leap of faith and gave much of what would normally be given to Californian vendors to UK ones. They came up trumps." Tim Burke, the visual effects supervisor, said many studios "are bringing their work to UK effects companies. Every facility is fully booked, and that wasn't the case before Harry Potter. That's really significant."

Final filming

On 12 June 2010, filming of the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2 was completed with actor Warwick Davis stating on his Twitter account, "The end of an Era – today is officially the last day of principal photography on 'Harry Potter' – ever. I feel honoured to be here as the director shouts cut for the very last time. Farewell Harry & Hogwarts, it's been magic!" However, reshoots of the epilogue scene were confirmed to begin in the winter of 2010. The reshoots were completed on 21 December 2010, marking the official closure of filming for the Harry Potter franchise. Exactly four years earlier on that day, Rowling's official website revealed the title of the final novel in the book series – Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.

Films

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001)

Harry Potter is an orphaned boy brought up by his unkind Muggle (non-magical) aunt and uncle. At the age of eleven, half-giant Rubeus Hagrid informs him that he is actually a wizard and that his parents were murdered by an evil wizard named Lord Voldemort. Voldemort also attempted to kill one-year-old Harry on the same night, but his killing curse mysteriously rebounded and reduced him to a weak and helpless form.
Harry became extremely famous in the Wizarding World as a result. Harry begins his first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and learns about magic. During the year, Harry and his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger become entangled in the mystery of the Philosopher's Stone which is being kept within the school.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002)

Harry, Ron, and Hermione return to Hogwarts for their second year, which proves to be more challenging than the last. The Chamber of Secrets has been opened, leaving students and ghosts petrified by an unleashed monster. Harry must face up to claims that he is the heir of Salazar Slytherin (founder of the Chamber), learn that he can speak Parseltongue, and also discover the properties of a mysterious diary, only to find himself trapped within the Chamber itself.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004)

Harry's third year sees the boy wizard, along with his friends, attending Hogwarts School once again. Professor R. J. Lupin joins the staff as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, while convicted murderer Sirius Black escapes from Azkaban. The Ministry of Magic entrusts the Dementors to guard Hogwarts from Black. Harry learns more about his past and his connection with the escaped prisoner.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005)

During Harry's fourth year, Hogwarts plays host to the Triwizard Tournament. Three European schools participate in the tournament, with three 'champions' representing each school in the deadly tasks. The Goblet of Fire chooses Fleur Delacour, Viktor Krum, and Cedric Diggory to compete against each other. However, Harry's name is also produced from the Goblet thus making him a fourth champion, which leads to a terrifying encounter with a reborn Lord Voldemort.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2007)

Harry's fifth year begins with him being attacked by Dementors in Little Whinging. Later, he finds out that the Ministry of Magic is in denial of Lord Voldemort's return. Harry is also beset by disturbing and realistic nightmares, while Professor Umbridge, a representative of Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge, is the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. Harry becomes aware that Voldemort is after a prophecy which reveals: "neither can live while the other survives". The rebellion involving the students of Hogwarts, secret organisation Order of the Phoenix, the Ministry of Magic, and the Death Eaters begins.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2009)

In Harry's sixth year at Hogwarts, Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters are increasing their terror upon the Wizarding and Muggle worlds. Headmaster Albus Dumbledore persuades his old friend Horace Slughorn to return to Hogwarts as a professor as there is a vacancy to fill. There is a more important reason, however, for Slughorn's return. While in a Potions lesson, Harry takes possession of a strangely annotated school textbook, inscribed as belonging to the 'Half-Blood Prince'. Draco Malfoy struggles to carry out a mission presented to him by Voldemort. Meanwhile, Dumbledore and Harry secretly work together to discover how to destroy the Dark Lord once and for all.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 (2010)

After unexpected events at the end of the previous year, Harry, Ron, and Hermione are entrusted with a quest to find and destroy Lord Voldemort's secret to immortality – the Horcruxes. It is supposed to be their final year at Hogwarts, but the collapse of the Ministry of Magic and Voldemort's rise to power prevents them from attending. The trio undergo an arduous journey with many obstacles in their path including Death Eaters, Snatchers, the mysterious Deathly Hallows, and Harry's connection with the Dark Lord's mind becoming stronger.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2011)

After destroying a Horcrux and discovering the significance of the three Deathly Hallows, Harry, Ron and Hermione continue to seek out the other Horcruxes in an attempt to destroy Voldemort, who has now obtained the powerful Elder Wand. The Dark Lord discovers Harry's hunt for his Horcruxes and launches an attack on Hogwarts, where the trio return for one last stand against the dark forces that threaten both the Wizarding and Muggle worlds.

Future
In July 2016, Warner Bros. Entertainment applied to purchase the rights to the stage play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, leading to speculation that it was going to be adapted into film, despite earlier denials, most notably from Rowling. In November 2021, Columbus, the director of Philosopher's Stone and Chamber of Secrets, expressed interest in directing an adaptation of Cursed Child with the intent of having the main cast members reprise their roles. When The New York Times asked Daniel Radcliffe in 2022 if he would be ready to reprise his role as Harry Potter, he replied that he was not interested in it at the moment, but did not deny the possibility of doing so in the future.
In a Sunday Times interview in August 2025, Columbus confirmed that he maintains close relationships with the original cast but has not spoken to Rowling in "a decade or so". He went on to state that the controversy around Rowling's views on transgender people meant that a Cursed Child film with the original cast was "never going to happen". In a later interview with Variety, Columbus spoke of "separating the artist from the art" and described the controversy around Rowling as "just sad, it's very sad", while noting that he does not agree with her views.

Release
The rights to the first four novels in the series were sold to Warner Bros. for £1,000,000 by J.K. Rowling. After the release of the fourth book in July 2000, the first film, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was released on 16 November 2001. In its opening weekend, the film grossed $90 million in the United States alone, which set a record opening worldwide. The succeeding three motion picture adaptations followed suit in financial success, while garnering positive reviews from fans and critics. The fifth film, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, was released by Warner Bros. on 11 July 2007 in English-speaking countries, except for the UK and Ireland, which released the movie on 12 July. The sixth, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, was released on 15 July 2009 to critical acclaim and finished its theatrical run ranked as the number two grossing film of 2009 on the worldwide charts.
The final novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, was split into two cinematic parts: Part 1 was released on 19 November 2010, and Part 2, the conclusion of the series, was released on 15 July 2011. Part 1 was originally scheduled to be released in 3D and 2D, but due to a delay in the 3D conversion process, Warner Bros. released the film only in 2D and IMAX cinemas. However, Part 2 was released in 2D and 3D cinemas as originally planned.
The television broadcast rights for the series in the US are currently held by NBCUniversal, which typically airs the films on USA Network and Syfy. The film series has accrued nearly 1.3 billion viewings since its television debut—the highest-watched franchise in television broadcast history. All eight films became available to stream on HBO Max on 27 May 2020, the launch date of the service.
In celebration of the 20th anniversary of the release of Philosopher's Stone, in November 2021, it was announced that the entire film series would be relaunched in cinemas in Brazil, as well as a special edition of Philosopher's Stone on HBO Max. Much of the original cast and crew reunited for an HBO Max retrospective special titled Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts, which was released on 1 January 2022.

Reception
The Harry Potter films have been top-rank box office hits, with all eight releases on the list of highest-grossing films worldwide. Philosopher's Stone was the highest-grossing Harry Potter film up until the release of the final instalment of the series, Deathly Hallows – Part 2, while Prisoner of Azkaban grossed the least. As well as being a financial success, the films have also been a success among film critics. Opinions of the films are generally divided among fans, with one group preferring the more faithful approach of the first two films, and another group preferring the more stylised character-driven approach of the later films. Rowling has been consistently supportive of all the films and evaluated Deathly Hallows as her "favourite one" in the series.

Critical response
All the films have been a success financially and critically, making the franchise one of the major Hollywood "tent-poles" akin to James Bond, Star Wars, Indiana Jones and Pirates of the Caribbean. The series is noted by audiences for growing visually darker and more mature as each film was released. However, the films have generally divided fans of the books, with some preferring the more faithful approach of the first two films and others preferring the more stylised character-driven approach of the later films.
Some have also felt the series has a "disjointed" feel due to the changes in directors, as well as Michael Gambon's portrayal of Albus Dumbledore differing from that of Richard Harris. Author J. K. Rowling has been consistently supportive of the films, and evaluated the two parts of Deathly Hallows as her favourite of the series. She wrote on her website of the changes in the book-to-film transition, "It is simply impossible to incorporate every one of my storylines into a film that has to be kept under four hours long. Obviously films have restrictions – novels do not have constraints of time and budget; I can create dazzling effects relying on nothing but the interaction of my own and my readers' imaginations."

Accolades
At the 64th British Academy Film Awards in February 2011, J. K. Rowling, David Heyman, David Barron, David Yates, Alfonso Cuarón, Mike Newell, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson collected the Michael Balcon Award for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema for the series.
The American Film Institute recognised the entire series with a Special Award at the American Film Institute Awards in 2011. Special awards "are given to outstanding achievements in the moving image that do not fit into AFI's criteria for the other honorees". In its press release, the Institute referred to the films as "a landmark series; eight films that earned the trust of a generation who wished for the beloved books of J.K. Rowling to come to life on the silver screen. The collective wizardry of an epic ensemble gave us the gift of growing older with Harry, Ron and Hermione as the magic of Hogwarts sprung from the films and into the hearts and minds of Muggles around the world."
Harry Potter was also recognised by the BAFTA Los Angeles Britannia Awards, with David Yates winning the Britannia Award for Artistic Excellence in Directing for his four Harry Potter films.

Academy Awards

Six of the eight films were nominated for a total of 12 Academy Awards.
Some critics, fans, and general audiences have expressed disappointment over the Harry Potter series not winning any Oscars for its achievements. However, others have pointed out that certain films in the series had uneven reviews, in contrast to the three films of The Lord of the Rings, for example, which were all critically acclaimed. This has been partly attributed to the Harry Potter series going through several directors each with their own directorial style in contrast to the Lord of the Rings trilogy, which was filmed in one massive undertaking by the same director, writer, and producer. An observer noted that "cinematically, the Potter franchise-starter was marked by its commercial caution: its imagination was safely limited, its storytelling by-the-book in all senses, its budget spent to yield more value than magic" in contrast with how "Fellowship of the Ring, by comparison, was a reckless, wondrous extravagance".
Although not successful at the Oscars, the Harry Potter series has gained success in many other award ceremonies, including the annual Saturn Awards and Art Directors Guild Awards. The series has also gained a total of 24 nominations at the British Academy Film Awards presented at the annual BAFTAs, winning several, and 5 nominations at the Grammy Awards.

Philosopher's Stone achieved seven BAFTA Award nominations, including Best British Film and Best Supporting Actor for Robbie Coltrane. The film was also nominated for eight Saturn Awards and won for its costumes design. It was also nominated at the Art Directors Guild Awards for its production design and received the Broadcast Film Critics Award for Best Live Action Family Film along with gaining two other nominations.
Chamber of Secrets won the award for Best Live Action Family Film in the Phoenix Film Critics Society. It was nominated for seven Saturn Awards, including Best Director and Best Fantasy Film. The film was nominated for four BAFTA Awards and a Grammy Award for John Williams's score. Prisoner of Azkaban won an Audience Award, as well as Best Feature Film, at the BAFTA Awards. The film also won a BMI Film Music award along with being nominated at the Grammy Awards, Visual Effect Society Awards, and the Amanda Awards. Goblet of Fire won a BAFTA award for Best Production Design as well as being nominated at the Saturn Awards, Critic's Choice Awards, and the Visual Effects Society Awards.
Order of the Phoenix picked up three awards at the inaugural ITV National Movie Awards. At the Empire Awards, David Yates won Best Director. Composer Nicholas Hooper received a nomination for a World Soundtrack Discovery Award. The film was nominated at the BAFTA Awards, but did not win for Best Production Design or Best Special Visual Effects. Half-Blood Prince was nominated for BAFTA Awards in Production Design and Visual Effects, and it was in the longlists for several other categories, including Best Supporting Actor for Alan Rickman. Amongst other nominations and wins, the film also achieved Best Family Movie at the National Movie Awards as well as Best Live Action Family Film at the Phoenix Film Critics Society Awards, along with being nominated for Best Motion Picture at the Satellite Awards.
Deathly Hallows – Part 1 gained two nominations at the BAFTA Awards for Best Make-Up and Hair and Best Visual Effects, along with receiving nominations for the same categories at the Broadcast Film Critics Association Awards. Eduardo Serra's cinematography and Stuart Craig's production design were also nominated in various award ceremonies, and David Yates attained his second win at the Empire Awards, this time for Best Fantasy Film. He also obtained another Best Director nomination at the annual Saturn Awards, which also saw the film gain a Best Fantasy Film nomination. Deathly Hallows – Part 2 was released to critical acclaim, gaining a mix of audience awards. It was also recognised at the Saturn Awards as well as the BAFTA Awards, where the film achieved a win for Best Special Visual Effects.

Box office performance
As of 2022, the Harry Potter film series is the fourth highest-grossing film franchise of all time, with the eight films released grossing over $7.7 billion worldwide. Without adjusting for inflation, this is higher than the first 22 James Bond films and the six films in the Star Wars original and prequel trilogies. Philosopher's Stone became the highest-grossing Harry Potter film worldwide upon completing its theatrical run in 2002, but it was eventually topped by Deathly Hallows – Part 2, while Prisoner of Azkaban grossed the least.
Six of the films — Prisoner of Azkaban, Goblet of Fire, Order of the Phoenix, Half-Blood Prince, and both parts of Deathly Hallows — have grossed around $216 million in IMAX theaters worldwide.

All-time rankings

Legacy

The Harry Potter films and their success have been retrospectively considered to have had a significant impact on the film industry. They are credited with helping redefine the Hollywood blockbuster in the 21st century by initiating a shift toward established media franchises forming the basis of successful films. In the wake of the final film's release, Claudia Puig of USA Today wrote that the films "inspired every major studio to try to capture [its] alchemic formula, spawning a range of copycats and wannabes" and "also have shown Hollywood how to make a glossy blockbuster with an eye toward keeping costs down".
A 2009 article from The Economist argued that the films were "in the vanguard" of adaptations of established properties being the modern film franchise model, citing The Lord of the Rings, Spider-Man and The Dark Knight Trilogy as examples of successful film series that followed Harry Potter's suit. The practice of splitting the finale of a film series into two back-to-back films was popularised by Deathly Hallows, and it was soon replicated by The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Parts 1 and 2, and The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Parts 1 and 2. Avengers: Infinity War was originally announced as a two-parter before the second part was retitled Avengers: Endgame.
The films are also credited with signalling the popularity of films based on children's and young adult literature in the 2000s and 2010s, correlating with the book series' own literary influence. Costance Grady and Aja Romano, commenting on the whole Harry Potter franchise's legacy for Vox in light of its 20th anniversary, wrote that youth-targeted literature has since become "a go-to well of ideas for Hollywood", pointing to the successes of The Twilight Saga and The Hunger Games.
The series has spawned a vast volume of fan fiction, with nearly 600,000 inspired stories catalogued, and an Italian fan film, Voldemort: Origins of the Heir, which received over twelve million views in ten days on YouTube.
The success of the film series, combined with that of the Lord of the Rings film trilogy, inspired Nickelodeon's production of the animated TV series Avatar: The Last Airbender, with the network seeking to emulate the two successful properties with an action-adventure series with magic elements.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery

Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery is a 2018 role-playing video game developed and published by Jam City. The game is set in the Wizarding World and based on the Harry Potter novels written by J.K. Rowling. Hogwarts Mystery follows a player character entering the fictional school of Hogwarts and is set before the events of the novels. The game released on 25 April 2018 for Android and iOS devices. Many of the actors from the Harry Potter film series provided their voices for the game.
The game received generally negative reviews from critics. Reviewers noted the game's use of the Wizarding World to be a positive, but many were highly critical of the microtransactions present. These transactions, especially those used to regain the in-game energy system, were near-universally panned for how they would constantly break the game's pacing. The game has grossed an estimated $400 million as of June 2022.

Gameplay and premise

Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery is a role-playing video game set in the Harry Potter universe established by J. K. Rowling's series of novels. The game is set between Harry Potter's birth and his enrollment at Hogwarts. The game revolves around the player character's journey through life at the school. They can attend magic classes, learn spells, battle rivals, date characters, play quidditch and embark on quests. Through the game's encounter system, players make choices that affect the game's narrative, though sometimes these choices are locked if the player's statistics are not high enough. Players can interact with characters from the series, such as Albus Dumbledore, Rubeus Hagrid and Severus Snape. After graduating Hogwarts, the game follows the player character in their career with the secret ROCC (Rare, Obscure, and Confounding Case Division) in the Ministry of Magic. Beyond Hogwarts consists of volumes, each coinciding with a year of Harry Potter's Hogwarts school career.
"Energy" is used to perform tasks throughout the game, which regenerate over time. Players tap on the screen to move the character between places. The player also gains different levels of courage, empathy, and knowledge by making choices in game, with higher levels of a particular attribute allowing the player to choose some different dialogue options in game and change interactions with other students and staff.

Development and release
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery was developed and published by Los Angeles-based mobile video game company Jam City. The game was licensed to Portkey Games, a publishing label established by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment to create games based on Harry Potter, with Hogwarts Mystery being the label's debut game. Actors from the Harry Potter film series such as Michael Gambon, Maggie Smith, Gemma Jones, Sally Mortemore, Warwick Davis, and Zoë Wanamaker voice their respective characters from the films.
The game was first announced on 18 January 2018 with a scheduled release on Android and iOS mobile devices on 25 April 2018. The game's release featured many components found in freemium games, such as microtransactions. Following backlash from fans, many of these microtransactions were reduced in price.

Reception

According to review aggregator website Metacritic Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery was reviewed "generally unfavourable", receiving an average score of 43 out of 100 based on reviews of 14 critics. Marc Hewitt from GameZebo praised the concept of a Harry Potter mobile game and stated that Hogwarts Mystery "largely lives up to the hype". Christine Chan from App Advice commented that Hogwarts Mystery is a "nice representation" of the world set out in Harry Potter and commended the game for letting her "live out [her] Hogwarts dreams".
However, the frequent enticements to pay real-world money for microtransactions in the game was widely criticised. One notable example highlighted by critics was an early scene in which the player is subject to being strangled by a Devil's Snare, during which their energy is immediately depleted; the player must then either wait around half an hour for energy to replenish or spend real-world money to receive immediate energy instead. The developers later defended the scene in an interview and disregarded suggestions of its controversial nature. GameZebo commented that the "[r]estrictive energy system rears its head early" and commented that game needed greater pacing. Chan from App Advice said the timers and energy system "left a sour taste in [her] mouth." Emily Sowden from Pocket Gamer called the use of free-to-play mechanics "maddening" and described the experience as being "behind a paywall".
Kotaku's Gita Jackson also commented on the game's use of these mechanics, saying, "where the game falters, is how it implements its free-to-play elements". Jackson interviewed one user that even took up writing Harry Potter fanfiction because they were unable to play the game as often as they wanted. David Jagnaeux from IGN called it "awful," describing the microtransactions as "gratuitous" and stating that they "actively prevented" him from enjoying the game. Keza MacDonald of The Guardian called Hogwarts Mystery "a dull game with a great concept, made unplayable by its hyper-aggressive monetisation."
The game was awarded Best Science Fiction or Fantasy Mobile Game during the 2018 Dragon Awards. The game was nominated for Best Breakthrough Game during the 2019 Google Play Awards but lost to Marvel Strike Force. By August 2018, the game had grossed $55 million. It has grossed an estimated US$110 million as of March 2019.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter: Hogwarts Tournament of Houses

Harry Potter: Hogwarts Tournament of Houses is a game show that aired on TBS and Cartoon Network from November 28 to December 19, 2021. Hosted by Helen Mirren, the show was intended as a tribute in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Harry Potter film series. It features four trios competing in answering trivia questions regarding the Harry Potter universe in order to take home the title of House Cup Champion and win prizes.

Format
The show is a trivia competition based on Harry Potter-related content. It features four teams of three Harry Potter fans, each representing a Hogwarts house (namely Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw and Slytherin), competing against each other to earn the title of House Cup Champion.
The winning team also receives prizes, including a $1,000 shopping spree at the Harry Potter Store New York, tickets to the Broadway production of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child at the Lyric Theatre in New York City and advance screenings for the film Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore (2022).

Episodes

Release
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Tournament of Houses was broadcast on TBS and Cartoon Network from November 28 to December 19, 2021. It was also made available for streaming on HBO Max.
The show was also released in several platforms internationally, including Crave in Canada, Sky Max and Now in the United Kingdom and Ireland, Sky Cinema and Sky One in Germany, Sky Uno, Now and Boing in Italy, TMC and TFX in France, Fox8, Foxtel Now and Binge in Australia, TVNZ 2 and TVNZ OnDemand in New Zealand, Amazon Prime Video in India, Cartoon Network and HBO Go in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, the Philippines, Taiwan and Hong Kong, Cartoon Network, Warner Channel and HBO Max in Latin America, and Boing in Spain.

Reception

Critical response
Tara Bennett of IGN gave the series four stars, calling it "an entertaining, and sometimes challenging, celebration of all things Potter".
Anita Singh of The Daily Telegraph gave it one star, stating it was the "worst role" of Helen Mirren's career, and that "this cringe-inducing, horribly Americanised Harry Potter quiz is abysmal in every way".

Accolades


================================================================================

# Harry Potter in amusement parks

This article details the appearance of Harry Potter theming in amusement parks. In the late 1990s, Universal Destinations & Experiences began discussing the possibility of purchasing the license for Harry Potter to create and theme amusement park rides. As Time Warner owns the license, a small walkthrough attraction was constructed at Warner Bros. Movie World called the Harry Potter Movie Magic Experience in 2001. This attraction was removed two years later. In 2010, Universal Islands of Adventure park opened The Wizarding World of Harry Potter. Similar attractions have also opened in Universal Studios Hollywood, Universal Studios Japan and Universal Studios Beijing.

History

Harry Potter Movie Magic Experience at Warner Bros. Movie World
In 2001, Time Warner used this license to construct and operate the Harry Potter Movie Magic Experience at Warner Bros. Movie World on the Gold Coast, Australia. The attraction was a small indoor walkthrough featuring many re-creations of locations in the first two movies. After two years of operation this attraction was removed.

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Islands of Adventure
A Harry Potter themed attraction at a Universal Studios park or a Disney park was rumored in 2003. However, the rights to the Harry Potter franchise had been acquired by Warner Bros., who denied all rumors. In January 2007, About.com reported a rumor from a "highly credible source" that the Universal Islands of Adventure park's Lost Continent area was going to be re-themed "to the stories and characters of one of the most popular children's franchises". Other sources followed up in the next few days with unofficial confirmation that the new area would involve Harry Potter. On May 31, 2007, Universal, in partnership with Warner Bros., officially announced The Wizarding World of Harry Potter would be added to Islands of Adventure.

Construction of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter began seven months after the official announcement, in January 2008. By July, the Flying Unicorn and Enchanted Oak Tavern were closed. The Flying Unicorn then began an almost two year refurbishment which transformed it into the Flight of the Hippogriff. The Enchanted Oak Tavern was later demolished. A bridge was built to connect The Lost Continent with Jurassic Park allowing guests to avoid the construction zone that was to be the Wizarding World. Construction progressed with the Hogwarts castle slowly taking shape. By September 2008, the Dueling Dragons entrance was moved to Jurassic Park to make room for construction of Hogsmeade. One month later, the old entrance was demolished. By September 2009, the top shell of Hogwarts castle was completed. On September 15, an announcement was made as to what exactly was going to be included in the Wizarding World. In early 2010, Universal increased the marketing of the area which included newspaper advertisements, billboards and television commercials. The Dueling Dragons were closed for some maintenance before being transformed into the Dragon Challenge. Construction was complete by June 1, 2010 when the area began soft openings.
A soft opening weekend was held for the media and reserved guests, starting on May 28, 2010. The park had two opening ceremonies that took place on June 16 and June 18, 2010. The first opening was reserved for the cast and crew of the Harry Potter films, J.K. Rowling (author of the novels), Universal Orlando Resort officials, as well as representatives from the media. The ceremony concluded with a fireworks display and a performance by the Orlando Philharmonic Orchestra, led by John Williams (composer of the music for the first three films). On June 18, the second ceremony occurred which officially opened The Wizarding World of Harry Potter to the public. Universal Orlando representative Bill Davis introduced the area to the audience which included actors from the films including Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Michael Gambon, Warwick Davis, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, Bonnie Wright and James and Oliver Phelps. The NBC Today show and The Weather Channel broadcast segments live from the park.
On December 6, 2011, Universal Destinations & Experiences announced an expansion plan for The Wizarding World of Harry Potter. The expansion has been described as "significant" by officials. Few other details have been released.

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at other parks
On December 1, 2011, The Wall Street Journal reported a rumor from "people familiar with the matter" that Universal Studios Hollywood was going to add their version of Islands of Adventure's Wizarding World of Harry Potter. The report also detailed the possibility that Universal Destinations & Experiences would open additional Harry Potter-themed areas at Universal Studios Singapore and Universal Studios Japan as well as a location in Spain. This report was widely relayed by other media sources. On December 6, 2011, Universal officially announced plans to bring The Wizarding World of Harry Potter to Universal Studios Hollywood. A replica of Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey and Hogwarts will be constructed. On May 5, 2012, the Los Angeles Times reported that Universal Studios Japan would also be receiving a The Wizarding World of Harry Potter by 2014. Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey was also confirmed as one of the attractions. In 2019, Universal Studios Beijing announced that it would also open a The Wizarding World of Harry Potter with the park in 2021.

Locations

Attractions

Below is a list of all of the attractions at Harry Potter themed areas around the world. The dates shown in the columns refer to the opening and closing dates for the ride under that name. It does not mean that the ride was closed and/or removed.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter influences and analogues

Writer J. K. Rowling cites several writers as influences in her creation of her bestselling Harry Potter series. Writers, journalists and critics have noted that the books also have a number of analogues; a wide range of literature, both classical and modern, which Rowling has not openly cited as influences.
This article is divided into three sections. The first section lists those authors and books which Rowling has suggested as possible influences on Harry Potter. The second section deals with those books which Rowling has cited as favourites without mentioning possible influences. The third section deals with those analogues which Rowling has not cited either as influences or as favourites but which others have claimed bear comparison with Harry Potter.  There may be additional influences, whether intentional or not, that will be found.

Acknowledged influences

Rowling has never openly credited any single author with inspiration, saying, "I haven't got the faintest idea where my ideas come from, or how my imagination works. I'm just grateful that it does, because it gives me more entertainment than it gives anyone else." However, she has mentioned a number of favourite authors as probable influences in her creation of Harry Potter.

British folklore and mythology
Rowling has said, "I've taken horrible liberties with folklore and mythology, but I'm quite unashamed about that, because British folklore and British mythology is a totally bastard mythology. You know, we've been invaded by people, we've appropriated their gods, we've taken their mythical creatures, and we've soldered them all together to make, what I would say, is one of the richest folklores in the world, because it's so varied. So I feel no compunction about borrowing from that freely, but adding a few things of my own."

The Iliad
When an interviewer said that saving Cedric's body resembled the actions of Hector, Achilles, and Patroclus in the Iliad, Rowling said, "That's where it came from. That really, really, really moved me when I read that when I was 19. The idea of the desecration of a body, a very ancient idea... I was thinking of that when Harry saved Cedric's body."

The Bible
A number of commentators have drawn attention to the Biblical themes and references in J. K. Rowling's final Harry Potter novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. In an August 2007 issue of Newsweek, Lisa Miller opined that Harry dies and then comes back to life to save humankind, like Christ. She points out the title of the chapter in which this occurs — "King's Cross" — a reference to the station on the London Underground, but also a possible allusion to Christ's cross. Also, she outlines the scene in which Harry is temporarily dead, pointing out that it places Harry in a very heaven-like setting where he talks to a father figure "whose supernatural powers are accompanied by a profound message of love." Jeffrey Weiss adds, in the Dallas Morning News, that the biblical quotation "And the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death" (1 Corinthians 15:26), featured on the tombstones of Harry's parents, refers to Christ's resurrection.
The quotation on Dumbledore's family tomb, "Where your treasure is, your heart will be also", is from Matthew 6:21, and refers to knowing which things in life are of true value.
"They're very British books", Rowling revealed to an Open Book conference in October 2007, "So on a very practical note Harry was going to find biblical quotations on tombstones, [but] I think those two particular quotations he finds on the tombstones at Godric's Hollow, they (…) almost epitomize the whole series."

Aeschylus and William Penn
Deathly Hallows begins with a pair of epigraphs, one from Quaker leader William Penn's More Fruits of Solitude and one from Aeschylus' The Libation Bearers. "I really enjoyed choosing those two quotations because one is pagan, of course, and one is from a Christian tradition", Rowling said. "I'd known it was going to be those two passages since Chamber was published. I always knew [that] if I could use them at the beginning of book seven then I'd cued up the ending perfectly. If they were relevant, then I went where I needed to go. They just say it all to me, they really do."

The Pardoner's Tale
In a July 2007 webchat hosted by her publisher Bloomsbury, Rowling stated that The Pardoner's Tale of Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales was an inspiration for a folktale, The Tale of the Three Brothers, retold by Xenophilius Lovegood in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. In the tale, three brothers outwit Death by magicking a bridge to cross a dangerous river. Death, angry at being cheated, offers to give them three gifts, the Deathly Hallows, as a reward for evading him. The first two die as a result of the gifts granted to them, but the third uses his gift wisely and dies in his bed an old man. In The Pardoner's Tale, three rogues are told that if they look under a tree, they can find a means to defeat Death. Instead they find gold, and, overcome with greed, eventually kill each other to possess it.

Macbeth
Rowling has cited William Shakespeare's Macbeth as an influence. In an interview with The Leaky Cauldron and MuggleNet, when asked, "What if [Voldemort] never heard the prophecy?", she said, "It's the Macbeth idea. I absolutely adore Macbeth. It is possibly my favourite Shakespeare play. And that's the question isn't it? If Macbeth hadn't met the witches, would he have killed Duncan? Would any of it have happened? Is it fated or did he make it happen? I believe he made it happen."
On her website, she referred to Macbeth again in discussing the prophecy: "the prophecy (like the one the witches make to Macbeth, if anyone has read the play of the same name) becomes the catalyst for a situation that would never have occurred if it had not been made."

Emma
Rowling cites Jane Austen as her favourite author and a major influence. Rowling has said: "My attitude to Jane Austen is accurately summed up by that wonderful line from Cold Comfort Farm: 'One of the disadvantages of almost universal education was that all kinds of people gained a familiarity with one's favourite books. It gave one a curious feeling; like seeing a drunken stranger wrapped in one's dressing gown.'" The Harry Potter series is known for its twist endings, and Rowling has stated that, "I have never set up a surprise ending in a Harry Potter book without knowing I can never, and will never, do it anywhere near as well as Austen did in Emma."

The Story of the Treasure Seekers
Rowling frequently mentions E. Nesbit in interview, citing her "very real" child characters. In 2000, she said, "I think I identify with E Nesbit more than any other writer", and described Nesbit's The Story of the Treasure Seekers as, "Exhibit A for prohibition of all children's literature by anyone who cannot remember exactly how it felt to be a child."

The Wind in the Willows

In a 2007 reading for students in New Orleans, Rowling said that the first book to inspire her was Kenneth Grahame's children's fantasy The Wind in the Willows, read to her when she had measles at the age of 4.

Dorothy L. Sayers
Rowling has also cited the work of Christian essayist and mystery writer Dorothy L. Sayers as an influence on her work, saying "There's a theory – this applies to detective novels, and then Harry, which is not really a detective novel, but it feels like one sometimes – that you should not have romantic intrigue in a detective book. Dorothy L. Sayers, who is queen of the genre said – and then broke her own rule, but said – that there is no place for romance in a detective story except that it can be useful to camouflage other people's motives. That's true; it is a very useful trick. I've used that on Percy and I've used that to a degree on Tonks in this book, as a red herring. But having said that, I disagree in as much as mine are very character-driven books, and it's so important, therefore, that we see these characters fall in love, which is a necessary part of life."

The Chronicles of Narnia
Rowling has said she was a fan of the works of C. S. Lewis as a child, and cites the influence of his The Chronicles of Narnia on her work: "I found myself thinking about the wardrobe route to Narnia when Harry is told he has to hurl himself at a barrier in King's Cross station – it dissolves and he's on platform Nine and Three-Quarters, and there's the train for Hogwarts."
She is, however, at pains to stress the differences between Narnia and her world: "Narnia is literally a different world", she says, "whereas in the Harry books you go into a world within a world that you can see if you happen to belong. A lot of the humour comes from collisions between the magic and the everyday world. Generally there isn't much humour in the Narnia books, although I adored them when I was a child. I got so caught up I didn't think CS Lewis was especially preachy. Reading them now I find that his subliminal message isn't very subliminal." New York Times writer Charles McGrath notes the similarity between Dudley Dursley, the obnoxious son of Harry's neglectful guardians, and Eustace Scrubb, the spoiled brat who torments the main characters until converted by Aslan.

The Little White Horse
In an interview in The Scotsman in 2002, Rowling described Elizabeth Goudge's The Little White Horse as having, "perhaps more than any other book . . . a direct influence on the Harry Potter books. The author always included details of what her characters were eating and I remember liking that. You may have noticed that I always list the food being eaten at Hogwarts." Rowling said in O that "Goudge was the only [author] whose influence I was conscious of. She always described exactly what the children were eating, and I really liked knowing what they had in their sandwiches."

The Sword in the Stone
Rowling also cites the work of T. H. White, a grammar school teacher, and the author of the well-known adult classic saga, The Once and Future King, which tells the story of King Arthur of Britain, from childhood to grave. Perhaps the best-known book from this saga is The Sword in the Stone (the first book, initially intended for children, with White's own illustrations) which was made into an animated movie by Walt Disney. Arthur (called Wart) is a small scruffy-haired orphan, who meets the wizard Merlin (who has an owl, Archimedes, and acts, much like Dumbledore, in the manner of an "absent-minded professor") who takes him to a castle to educate him.
As writer Phyllis Morris notes, "The parallels between Dumbledore and Merlin do not end with the protection of the hero in danger … In addition to both characters sporting long, flowing beards (and blue eyes,
according to T.H. White), Merlin was King Arthur's mentor and guide, as Dumbledore has been Harry's guide and mentor." Rowling describes Wart as "Harry's spiritual ancestor."

Other favourites

In 1999, while Rowling was on a tour of the United States, a bookseller handed her a copy of I Capture the Castle by Dodie Smith, saying she would love it. The book became one of her all time favourites. Rowling says that, "it is the voice of the narrator, in this case 17-year- old Cassandra Mortmain, which makes a masterpiece out of an old plot."
Also in 1999, Rowling said in interview that she was a great fan of Grimble by Clement Freud, saying: "Grimble is one of funniest books I've ever read, and Grimble himself, who is a small boy, is a fabulous character. I'd love to see a Grimble film. As far as I know, these last two fine pieces of literature are out of print, so if any publishers ever read this, could you please dust them off and put them back in print so other people can read them?"
On a number of occasions, Rowling has cited her admiration for French novelist Colette.
Rowling said that the death of Sydney Carton in Charles Dickens's A Tale of Two Cities, and the novel's final line, "It is a far, far better thing that I do than I have ever done; it is a far, far better rest that I go to than I have ever known", had a profound impact on her.
In a 2000 interview with BBC Radio 4, Rowling revealed a deep love of Vladimir Nabokov's controversial book Lolita, saying, "There just isn't enough time to discuss how a plot that could have been the most worthless pornography becomes, in Nabokov's hands, a great and tragic love story, and I could exhaust my reservoir of superlatives trying to describe the quality of the writing."
In an interview with O: The Oprah Magazine, Rowling described Irish author Roddy Doyle as her favourite living writer, saying, "I love all his books. I often talk about him and Jane Austen in the same breath. I think people are slightly mystified by that because superficially they're such different writers. But they both have a very unsentimental approach to human nature. They can be profoundly moving without ever becoming mawkish."
Many of Rowling's named favourites decorate the links section of her personal webpage. The section is designed to look like a bookcase, and includes I Capture the Castle,  The Little White Horse and Manx mouse, Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, Sense and Sensibility and Emma, a book of fairy tales by E. Nesbit, The Commitments and The Van by Roddy Doyle, two books by Dorothy L. Sayers and a book by Katherine Mansfield.
In January 2006, Rowling was asked by the Royal Society of Literature to nominate her top ten books every child should read. Included in her list were  Wuthering Heights by Emily Brontë, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory by Roald Dahl, Robinson Crusoe by Daniel Defoe, David Copperfield by Charles Dickens, Hamlet by William Shakespeare, To Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee, Animal Farm by George Orwell, The Tale of Two Bad Mice by Beatrix Potter, The Catcher in the Rye by J. D. Salinger and Catch-22 by Joseph Heller.

Analogues

There are a number of fictional works to which Harry Potter has been repeatedly compared in the media. Some of these Rowling has herself mentioned, others have been mentioned by Internet sites, journalists, critics or other authors. The works are listed roughly in order of creation.

The Pilgrim's Progress

John Granger sees Chamber of Secrets as similar to a morality play like John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress. He describes the climax, where Harry descends to the Chamber of Secrets to rescue Ginny Weasley as "the clearest Christian allegory of salvation history since Lewis's The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. … Using only traditional symbols, from the 'Ancient of Days' figure as God the Father to the satanic serpent and Christ-like phoenix ('the Resurrection Bird'), the drama takes us from the fall to eternal life without a hitch."

Wuthering Heights
In 2006, Rowling recommended Emily Brontë's Gothic post-Romantic Wuthering Heights as number one of the top ten books every child should read. In her essay, "To Sir With Love" in the book Mapping the World of Harry Potter, Joyce Millman suggests that Severus Snape, Harry Potter's morally ambiguous potions master, is drawn from a tradition of Byronic heroes such as Wuthering Heights' Heathcliff and that chapter two of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is reminiscent of the opening of Wuthering Heights when Heathcliff is coldly introduced and asks his servant Joseph to bring up wine for him and Lockwood. Snape commands the almost identical line to his servant Wormtail, with Snape described similarly to how Emily Brontë described Heathcliff.

Tom Brown's Schooldays
The Harry Potter series draws upon a long literary tradition of stories set in boarding schools. This school story genre originated in the Victorian era with Tom Brown's Schooldays, by Thomas Hughes. Tom Brown's Schooldays laid down a basic structure which has been widely imitated, for example in Anthony Buckeridge's 1950s Jennings books.
Both Tom Brown's Schooldays and Harry Potter involve an average eleven-year-old, better at sport than academic study, who is sent to boarding school. Upon arrival, the boy gains some best friends (in Tom's case, East, in Harry's case, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger) who helps him adjust to the new environment. They are set  some arrogant bullies – in Tom Brown's case, Harry Flashman, in Harry's case Draco Malfoy. Stephen Fry, who both narrates the British audio adaptations of the Harry Potter novels and has starred in a screen adaptation of Tom Brown, has commented many times about the similarities between the two books. "Harry Potter – a boy who arrives in this strange school to board for the first time and makes good, solid friends and also enemies who use bullying and unfair tactics", notes Fry, "then is ambiguous about whether or not he is going to be good or bad. His pluck and his endeavour, loyalty, good nature and bravery are the things that carry him through – and that is the story of Tom Brown's Schooldays".

The Lord of the Rings
Fans of author J. R. R. Tolkien have drawn attention to the similarities between his novel The Lord of the Rings and the Harry Potter series; specifically Tolkien's Wormtongue and Rowling's Wormtail, Tolkien's Shelob and Rowling's Aragog, Tolkien's Gandalf and Rowling's Dumbledore, Tolkien's Nazgûl and Rowling's Dementors, Old Man Willow and the Whomping Willow and the similarities between both authors' antagonists, Tolkien's Dark Lord Sauron and Rowling's Lord Voldemort (both of whom are sometimes within their respective continuities unnamed due to intense fear surrounding their names; both often referred to as "The Dark Lord"; and both of whom are, during the time when the main action takes place, seeking to recover their lost power after having been considered dead or at least no longer a threat). Several reviews of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows noted that the locket used as a horcrux by Voldemort bore comparison to Tolkien's One Ring, as it negatively affects the personality of the wearer.
Rowling said she had not read The Hobbit until after she completed the first Harry Potter novel (though she had read The Lord of the Rings as a teenager) and that any similarities between her books and Tolkien's are "Fairly superficial. Tolkien created a whole new mythology, which I would never claim to have done. On the other hand, I think I have better jokes." However, Tolkien's influences included many European myths and legends, including many of the same influences as Rowling's. Tolkienian scholar Tom Shippey has maintained that "no modern writer of epic fantasy has managed to escape the mark of Tolkien, no matter how hard many of them have tried".

Roald Dahl's stories
Many have drawn attention to the similarities between Rowling's works and those of Roald Dahl, particularly in the depiction of the Dursley family, which echoes the nightmarish guardians seen in many of Dahl's books, such as the Wormwoods from Matilda, Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker from James and the Giant Peach, and Grandma from George's Marvellous Medicine. Rowling acknowledges that there are similarities, but believes that at a deeper level, her works are different from those of Dahl; in her words, more "moral".

X-Men
The Marvel Comics superhero team the X-Men, created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby in 1963, are similar to Harry Potter in their examination of prejudice and intolerance. Comic book historian Michael Mallory examined the original premise of the comic, in which teenage mutants study under Professor X to learn how to control their abilities, safe from fearful Homo sapiens, and also battle less benign mutants like Magneto. He argued, "Think about [the comic] clad in traditional British university robes and pointy hats, castles and trains, and the image that springs to mind is Hogwarts School for Witchcraft and Wizard[ry], with Dumbledore, Voldemort and the class struggle between wizards and muggles." He acknowledged that while the X-Men was for the longest time "a phenomenon that was largely contained in the realm of comic book readers as opposed to the wider public [such as Rowling]", he argued "nothing exists in a vacuum, least of all popular culture. Just as the creators of X-Men consciously or unconsciously tapped into the creative ether of their time for inspiration, so has the X-Men phenomenon had an effect on the books and films that has since followed."

The Chronicles of Prydain
Lloyd Alexander's five-volume Prydain Chronicles, begun in 1964 with The Book of Three and concluding in 1968 with The High King, features a young protagonist, an assistant pig keeper named Taran, who wishes to be a great hero in a world drawn from Welsh mythology. Entertainment Weekly cited Lloyd Alexander as a possible influence on Rowling when it named her its 2007 Entertainer of the Year. When Alexander died in 2007, his obituary in New York Magazine drew many comparisons between Harry Potter and Prydain and said that "The High King is everything we desperately hope Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows will be."

The Dark Is Rising
Susan Cooper's Dark Is Rising sequence (which commenced with Over Sea, Under Stone in 1965 and now more commonly bound in a single volume) have been compared to the Harry Potter series. The second novel, also called The Dark Is Rising, features a young boy named Will Stanton who discovers on his eleventh birthday that he is in fact imbued with magical power; in Will's case, that he is the last of the Old Ones, beings empowered by the Light to battle the Dark. The books open in much the same way, with Will finding that people are telling him strange things and that animals run from him. John Hodge, who wrote the screenplay for the film adaptation, entitled The Seeker, made substantial changes to the novel's plot and tone to differentiate it from Harry Potter.

A Wizard of Earthsea
The basic premise of Ursula K. Le Guin's A Wizard of Earthsea (Parnassus, 1968), in which a boy with unusual aptitude for magic is recognised, and sent to a special school for wizards, resembles that of Harry Potter. On his first day, Ged encounters two other students, one of whom becomes his best friend, and the other, a haughty aristocratic rival. Ged later receives a scar in his struggle with a demonic shadow which can possess people. At the beginning of his journey, he is overconfident and arrogant, but after a terrible tragedy caused by his pride, is forced to rethink his ways, and later becomes a very respected wizard and headmaster, much like Albus Dumbledore. Le Guin claimed that she did not feel Rowling "ripped her off", but that she felt that Rowling's books were overpraised for supposed originality, and that Rowling "could have been more gracious about her predecessors. My incredulity was at the critics who found the first book wonderfully original. She has many virtues, but originality isn't one of them. That hurt."

The Worst Witch
Many critics have noted that Jill Murphy's The Worst Witch series (first published in 1974 by Allison & Busby), is set in a school for girls, "Miss Cackle's Academy for Witches", reminiscent of Hogwarts. The story concerns Mildred Hubble, an awkward pupil at a boarding-school for witches, who faces a scheming, blonde and snobbish high-born rival student, and she is best friends with a know-it-all witch and a prankster witch. Her professors include a kindly and elderly headmistress and a bullying, raven-haired potions teacher. Murphy has commented on her frustration at constant comparisons between her work and Harry Potter: "It's irritating … everyone asks the same question and I even get children writing to ask me whether I mind about Hogwarts and pointing out similarities. Even worse are reviewers who come across my books, or see the TV series, and, without taking the trouble to find out that it's now over quarter of a century since I wrote my first book, make pointed remarks about 'clever timing' – or say things like 'the Worst Witch stories are not a million miles from JK Rowling's books'. The implications are really quite insulting!"

Star Wars
The Harry Potter series shares many similarities with George Lucas's Star Wars with respect to main characters, especially heroes and villains, as well as story plotlines. Scholar Deborah Cartmell states that Harry Potter's story is based as much on Star Wars as it is on any other text.
The life of Harry Potter, the main hero of the series, parallels that of Luke Skywalker, who is the main hero of the Original Star Wars trilogy with both characters living dull and ordinary lives until a later age when they are recruited by an older mentor. Harry Potter trains to become a wizard at his late childhood and mentored by Albus Dumbledore in facing his destiny and enemy Lord Voldemort; whereas Luke Skywalker trains to become a Jedi at his early adulthood and is mentored by Obi-Wan Kenobi in facing his destiny and enemy Darth Vader (also known as Lord Vader). Both characters were also brought at infancy to their foster families directly by their future mentors.
The main villains of both the franchises also share many similarities. Tom Riddle was once also a student of the hero's mentor, Dumbledore at Hogwarts, also studying to be a wizard before he turned evil and transformed into Voldemort. Likewise, Anakin Skywalker was also a student of the hero's mentor, Obi-Wan Kenobi with the Jedi Order training to be a Jedi Knight before he turned to the dark side and transformed into Darth Vader.
The mentors of the main heroes also share many parallels. Both also mentored the main villain of their stories before they turned bad and betrayed their respective mentor. Both mentors were also eventually killed when fighting their former students. Albus Dumbledore was betrayed by Tom Riddle before being eventually killed by him as Lord Voldemort (through Draco Malfoy and Snape). Obi-Wan was betrayed by Anakin Skywalker before eventually being killed by him as Darth Vader. Both also voluntarily allowed themselves to be killed and advised the hero from beyond the grave.
Both stories have a "Dark Side" the followers of which are the villains of the story as well as their own followers/apprentices.
Both stories also have a prophesied "Chosen One" who will destroy evil. In the Harry Potter series, it is Harry Potter who is the chosen one who would defeat the Dark Lord Voldemort. In Star Wars, it is presumed and appears to be Luke Skywalker, but actually revealed to be Anakin Skywalker as proclaimed in the Jedi prophecy who would destroy the Sith and bring balance to the Force. He does this after being redeemed by his son, Luke Skywalker. More recent theories contrast this and argue that Luke is indeed the chosen one who will bring balance to The Force.

Chrestomanci series
In Diana Wynne Jones' Charmed Life (1977), two orphaned children receive magical education while living in a castle. The setting is a world resembling early 1900s Britain, where magic is commonplace. "Wynne Jones has been publishing for more than 30 years, and young readers have noted parallels between her books and Rowling's creations. The 1982 book Witch Week, part of Wynne Jones' celebrated Chrestomanci series, features an owlish young hero at a boarding school for children who have suffered from society's persecution of witches". Diana Wynne Jones has stated in answer to a question on her webpage: "I think Ms Rowling did get quite a few of her ideas from my books – though I have never met her, so I have never been able to ask her. My books were written many years before the Harry Potter books (Charmed Life was first published in 1977), so any similarities probably come from what she herself read as a child. Once a book is published, out in the world, it is sort of common property, for people to take ideas from and use, and I think this is what happened to my books."

Discworld
Before the arrival of J. K. Rowling, Britain's bestselling author was comic fantasy writer Terry Pratchett. His Discworld books, beginning with The Colour of Magic in 1983, satirise and parody common fantasy literature conventions. Pratchett was repeatedly asked if he "got" his idea for his magic college, the Unseen University, from Harry Potter's Hogwarts, or if the young wizard Ponder Stibbons, who has dark hair and glasses, was inspired by Harry Potter. Both in fact predate Rowling's work by several years; Pratchett jokingly claimed that he did steal them, though "I of course used a time machine."
The BBC and other British news agencies emphasised a supposed rivalry between Pratchett and Rowling, but Pratchett said on record that, while he did not put Rowling on a pedestal, he did not consider her a bad writer, nor did he envy her success. Claims of rivalry were due to a letter he wrote to The Sunday Times, about an article published declaring that fantasy "looks backward to an idealised, romanticised, pseudofeudal world, where knights and ladies morris-dance to Greensleeves". Actually, he was protesting the ineptitude of journalists in that genre, many of whom did not research their work and, in this case, contradicted themselves in the same article.

Ender's Game
Science fiction author Orson Scott Card, in a fierce editorial in response to Rowling's copyright lawsuit against the Harry Potter Lexicon, claimed that her assertion that she had had her "words stolen" was rendered moot by the fact that he could draw numerous comparisons between her books and his own 1985 novel Ender's Game; in his words,

A young kid growing up in an oppressive family situation suddenly learns that he is one of a special class of children with special abilities, who are to be educated in a remote training facility where student life is dominated by an intense game played by teams flying in midair, at which this kid turns out to be exceptionally talented and a natural leader. He trains other kids in unauthorised extra sessions, which enrages his enemies, who attack him with the intention of killing him; but he is protected by his loyal, brilliant friends and gains strength from the love of some of his family members. He is given special guidance by an older man of legendary accomplishments who previously kept the enemy at bay. He goes on to become the crucial figure in a struggle against an unseen enemy who threatens the whole world.

Young Sherlock Holmes
Chris Columbus, who directed the first two Harry Potter film adaptations, has cited the 1985 film Young Sherlock Holmes, which he wrote, as an influence in his direction for those films.  "That was sort of a predecessor to this movie, in a sense", he told the BBC in 2001, "It was about two young boys and a girl in a British boarding school who had to fight a supernatural force." Scenes from Young Sherlock Holmes were subsequently used to cast the first Harry Potter film. On 3 January 2010, Irish journalist Declan Lynch (writing in The Sunday Independent) stated that "there's more than a hint of young Sherlock evident in Harry".

Troll
The 1986 Charles Band-produced low-budget horror/fantasy film Troll, directed by John Carl Buechler and starring Noah Hathaway, Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Sonny Bono, features a character named "Harry Potter Jr." In an interview with M. J. Simpson, Band claimed: "I've heard that J. K. Rowling has acknowledged that maybe she saw this low-budget movie and perhaps it inspired her." However, a spokesman for Rowling, responding to the rumors of a planned remake of the film, has denied that Rowling ever saw it before writing her book.
Rowling has said on record multiple times that the name "Harry Potter" was derived in part from a childhood friend, Ian Potter, and in part from her favourite male name, Harry. On 13 April 2008, The Mail on Sunday wrote a news article claiming that Warner Bros. had begun a legal action against Buechler; however, the story was denied and lawyers for Rowling demanded the article be removed.
On 14 April 2008, John Buechler's partner in the Troll remake, Peter Davy, said about Harry Potter, "In John's opinion, he created the first Harry Potter. J.K. Rowling says the idea just came to her. John doesn't think so. There are a lot of similarities between the theme of her books and the original Troll. John was shocked when she came out with Harry Potter."

Groosham Grange
Groosham Grange (first published in 1988), a novel by best-selling British author Anthony Horowitz, has been cited for its similarities with Harry Potter; the plot revolves around David Eliot, a teenager mistreated by his parents who receive an unexpected call from an isolated boarding school, Groosham Grange, which reveals itself as a school for wizards and witches. Both books feature a teacher who is a ghost, a werewolf character named after the Latin word for "wolf" (Lupin/Leloup), and passage to the school via railway train. Horowitz, however, while acknowledging the similarities, just thanked Rowling for her contribution to the development of the young adult fiction in the UK.

The Books of Magic
Fans of the comic book series The Books of Magic, by Neil Gaiman (first published in 1990 by DC Comics) have cited similarities to the Harry Potter story. These include a dark-haired English boy with glasses, named Timothy Hunter, who discovers his potential as the most powerful wizard of the age upon being approached by magic-wielding individuals, the first of whom makes him a gift of a pet owl. Similarities led the British tabloid paper the Daily Mirror to claim Gaiman had made accusations of plagiarism against Rowling, which he went on the record denying, saying the similarities were either coincidence, or drawn from the same fantasy archetypes. "I thought we were both just stealing from T.H. White", he said in an interview, "very straightforward."  Harry Potter and Platform 9¾ even appeared in the final issues of DC's long-running Books of Magic spinoff comic. Dylan Horrocks, writer of the Books of Magic spin-off Hunter: The Age of Magic, has said they should be considered as similar works in the same genre and that both have parallels with earlier schoolboy wizards, like the 2000 AD character Luke Kirby.

Wizard's Hall
In 1991, the author Jane Yolen released a book called Wizard's Hall, to which the Harry Potter series bears a resemblance. The main protagonist, Henry (also called Thornmallow), is a young boy who joins a magical school for young wizards. At the school "he must fulfill an ancient prophecy and help overthrow a powerful, evil wizard." However, Yolen has stated that "I'm pretty sure she never read my book," attributing similarities to commonly used fantasy tropes. In an interview with the magazine Newsweek, Yolen said, "I always tell people that if Ms. Rowling would like to cut me a very large check, I would cash it." Yolen stopped reading Harry Potter after the third book, and has expressed dislike for the writing style of Harry Potter, calling it "fantasy fast food".

Theosophy
John Algeo, a scholar and member of the Theosophical Society in America, commented on Harry Potter's connection with Theosophy, noting that "Rowling has some familiarity [with Theosophy], as is clear from her reference in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban to the fictitious author 'Cassandra Vablatsky' and her equally fictitious book Unfogging the Future. 'Vablatsky' is a metathesis of 'Blavatsky,' and 'Cassandra' is an appropriate substitute for Helena, because Cassandra was the daughter of Priam, King of Troy, a prophetess who always spoke the truth but was never believed and because Cassandra's story is part of the great war of the Iliad, fought over Helen. Moreover, the fictitious book title Unfogging the Future suggests Isis Unveiled, Helena Blavatsky's first major work."


================================================================================

# Harry Potter: Magic Awakened

Harry Potter: Magic Awakened is a 2021 collectible card role-playing game developed by Zen Studio. NetEase published the game in China and Taiwan, while Warner Bros. Games under its Portkey Games label published elsewhere. The player takes the role of a new student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and engages with the magical world of Harry Potter.
The game was released in China and Taiwan on September 9, 2021 and internationally on June 27, 2023 for Microsoft Windows (SEA server only), Android and iOS.
On October 29, 2024 Warner Bros. closed its servers in Europe, America, and Oceania.

Gameplay
Harry Potter: Magic Awakened is a collectible card role-playing video game set in the magical world of Harry Potter. As a new student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, players will customize their character, buy school supplies at Diagon Alley, be sorted into a house by the Sorting Hat, and join the Dueling Club. Players are able to encounter known characters from the original series and learn spells and charms. The game offers new storylines and challenging trials, and makes players face off against other characters in duels. The game's primary focus is on utilizing cards, which must be employed strategically as spells in duels to secure a win. Combining the cards can result in even stronger spells.

Synopsis
Set ten years after the second wizarding war, the story begins with the player receiving a letter of acceptance to Hogwarts. Accompanied by Rubeus Hagrid, the protagonist visits Diagon Alley to purchase magical items like a wand and an owl as a pet. During their journey on the Hogwarts Express to the castle, the main character interacts with other first-year students. After arriving at Hogwarts, Minerva McGonagall greets everyone in the Great Hall and gives a brief account of the recent Battle of Hogwarts, which led to Lord Voldemort's downfall. Subsequently, the Sorting Hat sorts the protagonist and their peers into the different Hogwarts houses.
The protagonist begins their term at Hogwarts by going to the first class, focusing on charms, with instruction provided by Filius Flitwick. Shortly after, they join the Duelling Club, engaging in duels against other students.

Development

Release
In June 2020, NetEase opened sign-ups for an open beta of Harry Potter: Magic Awakened in China. In June 2021, the official game trailer was released, showing some familiar characters, creatures, and scenes from the Harry Potter universe. Aragog and his army of spiders, the pixies from Gilderoy Lockhart's class, and the centaurs from the Forbidden Forest are being featured in the trailer. In September 2021, it was officially released in China. While NetEase publishes the game in mainland China, the game is published by Enyi Games in Taiwan.
In February 2022, it was announced that the game would be launching in the Americas, Europe, and Oceania and will be co-published in those regions by NetEase and Warner Bros. Interactive. A final release date has yet to be announced. The game is expected to be released on Android and iOS, with pre-registration being available since February 2022. In March 2023, the game was soft-launched in a number of select countries.
Harry Potter: Magic Awakened was released internationally on June 27, 2023.

Reception

According to review aggregator Metacritic, Harry Potter: Magic Awakened received "generally favorable" reviews.

Revenue
Within 2 months of the game's release in China, Harry Potter: Magic Awakened generated over $228 million across the Apple App Store and Google Play. By that, the game became the second-highest grossing Harry Potter mobile game and achieved the best launch for a Harry Potter-related mobile game. As of October 2022, Magic Awakened generated a total of $358 million.
The game's global release generated a total revenue of $2.3 million during its first day. Specifically, the NetEase release contributed $1.3 million, while Warner Bros. Games' release added $1 million to the overall earnings.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions

Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions is a sports video game developed by Unbroken Studios and published by Warner Bros. Games under its Portkey Games label. The game focuses on the Harry Potter-related sport Quidditch. The player controls a character that holds a specific position in Quidditch and engages in broomstick adventures and competitive multiplayer modes.
Development commenced several years prior to its announcement in April 2023, where Warner Bros. Games released a first look alongside a limited playtest. The game was released on September 3, 2024, for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S, with it being available from Day One on PlayStation Plus. The Nintendo Switch version was released on November 8, 2024. The game received mixed reviews.

Gameplay
Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions is a fantasy sports game that focuses on competition. The game revolves around Quidditch, a popular sport in the fictional universe of Harry Potter. Players can customize their character and select from four different positions: Chaser, Seeker, Beater, and Keeper. The game offers an immersive Quidditch experience that includes a variety of broomstick adventures and competitive multiplayer modes which allow players to participate in the sport with their friends.
The game also has some departures from traditional Quidditch rules from the books and films, including the following:

Teams have one Beater instead of two for a total of six players per team instead of seven.
Catching the Golden Snitch is worth 30 points instead of 150 and does not automatically end the match.
Instead of playing until the Snitch is caught, teams play until time expires or until one team scores 100 points.
If the scores are tied when time expires, a golden score overtime commences where the next goal (similar to a golden goal) or catching the Snitch wins.
Players can meet or play as numerous familiar characters from the series. The single-player career mode also allows players to not only play in Hogwarts' Inter-House Quidditch Cup but also a new Triwizard Schools Quidditch Cup in the style of the Triwizard Tournament from Goblet of Fire and finally the Quidditch World Cup representing one of 16 countries.

Development
Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions is developed by Los Angeles-based Unbroken Studios and published by Warner Bros. Games under its Portkey Games label. Development of the game began several years prior to 2023. Its creation was announced 20 years after the previous Quidditch-themed game Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup. The game's visual style is distinct from other Harry Potter games such as Hogwarts Legacy, as it endeavors to have a more stylized and cartoon-like appearance. Despite being set in the Wizarding World universe, the game is not a direct adaptation of the books or films. The Portkey game developers strive to maintain the authenticity of J. K. Rowling's original vision while also introducing elements that allow fans to explore the world of magic in new ways. Rowling has no direct involvement in the game's development.
In May 2023, gameplay footage surfaced on Reddit and similar websites. Warner Bros. swiftly took action and removed any leaked content of a recent playtest. In August 2023, additional footage leaked, in which players take on the roles of well-known characters such as Harry Potter and Ron Weasley. A gameplay trailer was released on July 29, 2024.

Release
In April 2023, Warner Bros. Games unveiled the first look of Quidditch Champions along with the announcement of a limited playtest for the game. GamesRadar+ noted that some fans expressed criticism towards the announcement, citing the absence of Quidditch in the recently launched Hogwarts Legacy. In June 2024, Unbroken announced that the game would release on Windows and home consoles in September. The game will have an expansion pack titled 'The Legacy Pack', which will include exclusive content from Hogwarts Legacy.

Reception

Quidditch Champions received "mixed or average" reviews, according to review aggregator platform Metacritic. Fellow review aggregator OpenCritic assessed that the game received fair approval, being recommended by 25% of critics. While the lack of microtransactions was praised, the striking distinction from Hogwarts Legacy in visual fidelity was also noted.
IGN praised the gameplay mechanics but criticized the lack of story-driven modes. GameSpot highlighted the graphics and online mode but felt it did not innovate compared to previous QM titles.

Sales
Despite being one of the biggest PS Plus games of 2024 and boosting the PS Plus September 2024 player count, Quidditch Champions dropped in popularity by 48% on the PlayStation Network in its second week.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup

Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup is a 2003 sports game that features the fictional sport of Quidditch from the Harry Potter franchise. The game was developed by two teams, EA UK and Magic Pockets, and was published by Electronic Arts. It was released for Game Boy Advance, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube. The game bears no relation to the abandoned Nintendo 64 project.
This game serves as the first entry of Harry Potter: Quidditch spin-off series. A second installment, Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions, was released on September 3, 2024.

Characters/Teams
Hogwarts House team rosters are based on Harry's third year (Prisoner of Azkaban). Other House and national team members not named in the books are named in this game, and their names are also listed on Chocolate Frog cards in the Half-Blood Prince video game.
As in the first three books, Lee Jordan returns as play-by-play commentator for the House Quidditch Cup matches, but unique to this game, Harry and Ron's dorm-mate Seamus Finnegan joins as color commentator. Meanwhile, Ludo Bagman returns as play-by-play commentator for international matches, with a set of color commentators. Other characters make appearances in the stands and elsewhere, such as Hermione Granger, Ron Weasley, Rolanda Hooch and Albus Dumbledore.

Gameplay

General
At the start of a Quidditch match, the player controls the Chasers, who try to score goals with the Quaffle to earn points, with each goal worth 10 points. Along the top of the screen, each team's score display also features a thin bar with one-half of the Golden Snitch on the end. Actions performed in the game by the Chasers, such as completing a pass and scoring a goal, increase the bar slightly. The player can perform a string of combo passes and shots, which can increase the bar by an amount proportional to the length of the combo string, up to eight consecutive actions. The player can continue to chain actions to the combo as long as the player team is in possession of the Quaffle, but the counter will not go past 8. The bar will continue to increase in length until both halves of the Snitch join, which marks the end of the Chaser phase.
The Chasers can also perform moves to drain the opposing team's bar, such as successfully hitting an opposing Chaser with the Bludger, successfully landing a Special Move tackle, or performing a Team Special Move. Each team in the game has a unique Team Special Move that, when activated, plays a short cinematic of spectacular teamwork between the team Chasers (and sometimes Beaters) and has a possibility of scoring multiple goals. For example, the Ravenclaw Team Special Move, the Burdish of Raven, scores three times for 30 points total – something no other Team Special Move, even those of the national teams, does. Although the original Quidditch rule forbids more than two Chasers to be within the scoring area at the same time (known as Stooging, as stated in Quidditch Through the Ages), doing such behaviour in this game will not result in a penalty of any kind.
Once both halves of the Snitch join, the game moves into the Snitch Chase phase, regardless of score – it is possible, though unlikely, to start the Snitch Chase with the score still at 0-0. During the Snitch Chase, the player controls the Seeker and follows the Golden Snitch in a race against the opposing Seeker to catch it. The player can use a speed boost, which drains a boost bar directly proportional to the size of the Snitch bar accumulated during the Chaser phase of the game. Staying in the Snitch's slipstream helps refill the player's boost bar and will cause the bar to extend its size if the bar is full. Using the boost, the player will be able to grab the Snitch once it is close enough. As soon as the Seeker from either team manages to catch the Snitch, the match ends. Successfully catching the Snitch grants the player team 150 points and typically wins the match, but in case the opposing team is far ahead in points, catching the Snitch can be useful for catching up, even if the player team would lose the match anyway.

Hogwarts
In this stage, the player competes for the Hogwarts Inter-House Quidditch Cup. Upon selecting Hogwarts for the first time, a presentation cutscene by the Gryffindor Quidditch Team's Keeper and captain Oliver Wood will play. Afterwards, the player gets to choose between the four Hogwarts House teams – Gryffindor, Slytherin, Hufflepuff, or Ravenclaw. Each of these teams is represented by its Seeker at the team selection screen – Harry Potter for Gryffindor, Draco Malfoy for Slytherin, Cedric Diggory for Hufflepuff, and Cho Chang for Ravenclaw. Unless the first Quidditch Cup game has been unlocked, upon selecting a House team, the Seeker of the team will give a short compliment on the player's selection before proceeding to the House challenges screen.
The House challenges focus on specific aspects of a full Quidditch match and are used to learn the game for new players or polish skills for returning players. There are a total of six challenges: Passing, Tackle and Shoot, Seeker, Beaters and Bludgers, Special Moves, and Combos. Each of these challenges is the same for every House team and is led by a relevant player within the selected House team, e.g. Harry Potter leads the Gryffindor Seeker challenge, while Angelina Johnson leads the Gryffindor Passing challenge, and Oliver Wood leads the Gryffindor Combo challenge. Only the first three challenges are available initially, and completing all of them allows the player to play a full Quidditch match – the first Hogwarts Quidditch Cup game. Completing the first game unlocks two more House challenges, which must be completed to proceed to the next game. Once the second game is completed, the final challenge becomes available, which unlocks the final game for the Cup upon completion.
While playing the House challenges, the player can earn Quidditch cards by beating record times. Collecting these cards can help unlock special moves that can be performed during gameplay and other kinds of in-game content. Some of these cards also unlock the Team Special Move for a particular team. Such cards contain three different tasks that can only be performed while playing with that team in an actual Quidditch match, with the tasks varying for every playable team, such as getting to the Quaffle first, scoring a certain number of goals in a single match, or winning a match without conceding a goal.
Each game in the Hogwarts Quidditch Cup depends on which challenges have been completed, e.g. special moves and combo moves are unavailable in the first game. The Cup is based on points accumulation, not wins, so high-scoring teams have a better chance at winning it. The team with the most points total after all three games have been played wins the Cup. Winning the Hogwarts Quidditch Cup with any team unlocks the Quidditch World Cup.

World Cup
The World Cup stage is similar to the Hogwarts stage in terms of gameplay, but there are no challenges that have to be played before a match. In addition, the teams in the World Cup are national teams representing their respective countries instead of Hogwarts Houses. A total of nine teams are available to the player to choose from, namely England, the USA, Japan, Germany, France, Australia, the Nordic Team, Spain, and Bulgaria, with the latter featuring the "Star Seeker" from the book series, Viktor Krum. Bulgaria is also notable for being the only unlockable team in the game, available after collecting a certain number of Quidditch cards.
Another key difference compared to the Hogwarts stage is that the player also gets to choose which model of broom to use, which essentially determines the difficulty of the World Cup. The four models available are Comet 260 (Easy), Nimbus 2000 (Medium), Nimbus 2001 (Hard), and Firebolt (Very Hard). Only Comet 260 is available initially – all others have to be unlocked by collecting Quidditch cards. Each broom offers subtle differences in handling in-game and, to a much greater extent, affects the AI opponents' behavior. All of that aside, the player can still earn more Quidditch cards by playing World Cup matches, including the ones that unlock Team Special Moves.
The player will play against every team in the World Cup twice, once at the player team's home ground and once at the opposing team's, for a total of sixteen games. The Cup is awarded the same way as the Hogwarts Cup, i.e. the team with the most points total after sixteen game wins the World Cup. The player can play multiple separate World Cups with different teams simultaneously, but can only run one World Cup with any given team. For example, the player can have a running World Cup with England and another with France at the same time, but not two separate World Cups with France at the same time.

Exhibition
Exhibition allows the player to play a one-off match between Hogwarts House teams on the school's Quidditch pitch during summer or winter. The player can also choose to play an international match between national teams, with the selection of nine venues. Only the venues of the England and US teams are available initially, but as the player wins against other national teams in an "away" game in the World Cup, more venues become available. This mode also offers local multiplayer option. The team available for the away side depends on the team pool of the chosen team for the home side, so that Hogwarts teams cannot play against World Cup teams or on any international venue, nor can World Cup teams play on the Hogwarts Quidditch pitch.

Reception

The game received mixed to positive reviews. GameRankings gave the game a score of 70% for the GameCube version, 71% for the PC version, 70% for the PlayStation 2 version, 69% for the Xbox version, and 53% for the Game Boy Advance version. Likewise, Metacritic gave it a score of 68 out of 100 each for the GameCube and PS2 versions, 69 out of 100 each for the PC and Xbox versions, and 53 out of 100 for the GBA version.
GameSpot gave all versions of the game except the Game Boy Advance version a rating of 6.5/10, citing sluggish controls and shallow gameplay, but praising the inclusion of easily recognizable characters from the books and films, and good graphics. IGN gave all console versions of the game except the Game Boy Advance version a 7.2/10 and GameSpy gave the PC version a score of three stars out of five. In Japan, Famitsu gave the GBA version a score of two sixes, one five, and one eight, for a total of 25 out of 40.
The game's critics generally criticized the game's feel, as the controls were felt to be sluggish. IGN cited the game as being "fun, but not compelling." Eurogamer cited the game commentary track as being "painful at times", but also described "Quidditch World Cup above [as] being an average, if well-implemented, fantasy sports game."

Sequel

In April 2023, a spiritual successor, Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions was announced. The game was released on PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X and Series S, and Microsoft Windows on September 3rd, 2024. The game was later released on Nintendo Switch on November 8th 2024.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter: The Exhibition

Harry Potter: The Exhibition is a travelling exhibition based on the Harry Potter series of books and films, which features props, costumes, and other artefacts. The first iteration of the Exhibition ran from April 2009 to March 2020. A second iteration of the Exhibition premiered in early 2022.

First iteration (2009-2020)

Development
Warner Bros. Consumer Products, a division of Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. (the studio which produced the film series), created the exhibition in partnership with Exhibitgroup/Giltspur (which later merged with GES Exposition Services).

Tour
The exhibition originally opened in April 2009 at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago, Illinois, United States. Following its premiere, the exhibition was shown at various localities around the world. The final exhibition of this iteration was at the Pavilhão de Portugal, in Lisbon, Portugal, which ended in March 2020 (earlier than scheduled due to the COVID-19 pandemic).

Features
The exhibition featured props, costumes, and other artefacts from the creation of the Harry Potter film series. Among the items displayed were Harry Potter's wand and eyeglasses. Also featured were film sets, such the Great Hall and Gryffindor Common Room from the fictional school Hogwarts, which is a major setting in the series. Beginning in 2016, some artefacts from the Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them film series were also included.

Second iteration (2022 - present)

Development
As of 2021, Warner Bros., in partnership with Imagine Exhibitions and EMC Presents, created a new iteration of the Exhibition. This new version still highlights the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts series of books and films, and also features stories from the expanded Wizarding World, including Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. Visitors are able to see authentic props and original costumes from the films and have the opportunity to engage with the exhibits.

Tour
The Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania hosted the world premiere of the Exhibition in early 2022, which now tours globally.
Since 13 September 2024, the CambridgeSide mall near Boston, Massachusetts, USA has hosted the Exhibition. The exhibit features many authentic props and costumes from the Harry Potter films and the Broadway production. The exhibit also has interactive features and was created and developed by Warner Bros. Discovery Global.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter Trading Card Game

The Harry Potter Trading Card Game is an out-of-print collectible card game based in the world of J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter novels. Created by Wizards of the Coast in August 2001, the game was designed to compete with the Yu-Gi-Oh!, Pokémon and Magic: The Gathering card games. Its release was timed to coincide with the theatrical premiere of the first film in the series. The game was praised for the way it immersed children in the Harry Potter universe. At one point the game was the second best selling toy in the United States; however, it is now out of print.

Game play
The game is for two players, each with 60-card decks (with the addition of a starting Character; see below). The aim is to force the opposite player to run out of cards from their deck first. When cards do "damage" to a player, cards from the deck are placed into the discard pile. Each player begins with a hand of seven cards, and draws a card before each of their turns.

Types of cards
There are eight different types of cards in the Harry Potter Trading Card Game.

Lessons are the basic units of the game. Each provides 1 "Power", which is needed to play other cards. The number of Lessons in play determines the player's capabilities to play cards with different costs. There are five different Lesson cards, each of which has a different symbol and colour that is used to identify it on other cards.
Spells are cards that are played directly into the discard pile and have a given effect. They have a printed Power cost; there are Spells for each Lesson type.
Creatures stay on the table when played. All Creatures have a printed Power cost, and require Care of Magical Creatures Lessons to play. They have a Health number that determines how much damage they can take, and a "Damage each turn" number that dictates the amount of damage done to the opposing player each turn. Not all Creatures do damage; some have special abilities.
Characters do not have a printed Power cost or Lesson type and thus do not require Lessons to play, although they do require two Actions. Characters stay on the table and have special abilities that can be used by the player; some also provide Power. Each player must have a starting Character to represent them: the starting Character begins the game on the table and cannot be discarded from play. Only Characters with the "Witch" or "Wizard" keyword designation can be used as starting Characters.
Adventures, like Characters, do not require Lessons to play, and require two Actions. They have an Effect on the opposing player; a "To Solve" condition that must be accomplished for the opposing player to remove the Adventure; and a Reward, which the opposing player receives when they have solved the Adventure. Each player can have only one Adventure in play at a time.
Items stay on the table when played. They have a printed Power cost and can be of any Lesson type. Some have effects that can be used, while others provide extra Power.
Matches were introduced in the Quidditch Cup expansion. They all have a printed Power cost of one, requiring Quidditch Power. They have a condition "To Win", and a "Prize" for the first player to fulfill that condition. Only one Match is allowed in play at one time.
Locations were introduced in the Diagon Alley expansion. They have a printed Power cost and can be of any Lesson type. Locations have the same effect on both players. There can be only one Location in play at any one time; playing a Location removes any previous Locations from play.

Lesson types
There are five Lesson types in the game, each applying to different cards. There is no limit on the Lesson cards in a player's deck: a player may have as many different types as they prefer.

Care of Magical Creatures (brown) is mostly used for Creature cards, although there are also a small number of Spells, Items and Locations requiring this Lesson. Care of Magical Creatures focus mainly on dealing damage.
Charms (blue) can be used for Spells, Items and Locations. Charms specialises in low but versatile damage and some other effects, such as locating cards from a player's deck.
Potions (green) can be used for Spells, Items and Locations. Potions cards are often very powerful and require comparatively low Power costs, although they usually require a sacrifice of a certain number of Lessons.
Quidditch (yellow) can be used for Spells, Items, Locations and Matches. This Lesson type was introduced in the Quidditch Cup expansion, and specialises in cards that have two effects at once.
Transfiguration (red) can be used for Spells, Items and Locations. These cards specialise in the removal of Creatures, Lessons and other cards from play while not directly damaging the opposition.

Keywords
Some cards have keywords in addition to their card type. These keywords allow other cards to refer to a specific type of card. The "Wizard" or "Witch" designation on Character cards is an example of a keyword, as is the "Healing" designation on some other cards. Other common keywords include designations representing each of the four Hogwarts houses: Gryffindor, Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff, and Slytherin.
Some cards (including all Characters) have the keyword "Unique", which indicates that only one of them can be in play at a time (for either player). The only exception is if both players have the same starting Character.

History

Card sets

The first set of cards, commonly called the base set, was introduced in August 2001. Following the 116-card base set release, four expansion sets were introduced. The first three expansions each consist of 80 cards plus 30 Foil or Hologram Portrait Premium rares. These expansions include Quidditch Cup (November 2001), Diagon Alley (March 2002), and Adventures at Hogwarts (June 2002). Notable differences in these expansions include the addition of the Quidditch lesson type and Match cards introduced in the Quidditch Cup expansion, location cards introduced in the Diagon Alley expansion, and a larger pool of adventure cards in the Adventures at Hogwarts expansion. The fourth and final expansion released was Chamber of Secrets, which has 140 cards plus 55 Foil or Hologram Portrait Premium rares (October 2002). This last expansion features cards based on the Chamber of Secrets book, where all previous cards were based on the Sorcerer's Stone book.
From its inception in 2001 through 2003, the Harry Potter Trading Card Game had several gaming leagues formed. After releasing the last expansion set in 2003, Wizards of the Coast discontinued making HPTCG cards.

Card value
Each card has its own specific value, the most valuable being "rare" and the least being "common". The value of a card is shown by a symbol at the bottom right of the card, followed by the expansion set symbol and set number. A circle means that the card is common, and therefore not very valuable; a diamond means the card is uncommon, so the card has a bit of value; and a star means the card is rare, and is more valuable.
There are also cards of more value than "rare" cards: foils and holofoils. "Foil premium" cards are partially "shiny", having thunderbolts and stars as theme for the "additional covering". These are normally rare cards, but common and uncommon foils do exist. "Holo-portraits premium", (colloquially "holofoil") are the most rare and the most valuable of all types of cards. These cards are only available for "character" cards, which have the portrait of the character on them (origin of name). They are similar to foils, except that the picture of the character has a holographic quality that gives the impression of "popping out".
Given the variety of card values, single cards have a price range of $0.05–15.00.

Card availability
The cards from this game are sold in three ways: booster packs, starter decks, and theme decks. Booster packs were released for every set. Each pack contains eleven cards, which includes one rare card, two uncommon cards, six common cards, and two Lessons. If a premium card was included in a base set booster pack, it replaced the rare card. In the expansions, a premium card replaced one of the common cards.
Starter decks were made with the Base set, Diagon Alley set, and the Chamber of Secrets set. Each included two introductory decks of 40 cards, a playmat, additional instructions and two premium cards. Theme decks, a special kind of starter pack, were released to the public with the Chamber of Secrets set. These decks are the Percy Weasley Potions deck and the Twin Trouble deck. Included in each was a full 60-card deck, playable right out of the box. The packaging for two additional theme decks (Hannah Abbott's Spellcaster and Dean Thomas' Restrike) was made for a toy fair in 2001, but the products were never produced.

Playing online
Virtual card games LackeyCCG and Apprentice allow for online play.

Lawsuit
In 2002, Wizards of the Coast filed a lawsuit against former vice president of operations Charles Federline, alleging that he cost the company more than $93,000 by undermining the bidding process for the print work for the cards.

Revival
Since 2015, there have been unofficial yearly tournaments at the Gen Con.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter (TV series)

Harry Potter is an upcoming fantasy television series developed for HBO, based on the series of eponymous fantasy books by British author J. K. Rowling. It is the second screen adaptation of the books, following the Warner Bros. Pictures film series. Produced by HBO, Warner Bros. Television, Brontë Film & TV, and Heyday Films, the series stars Dominic McLaughlin as the title character, with Alastair Stout as Ron Weasley, and Arabella Stanton as Hermione Granger. The principal cast also includes John Lithgow as Albus Dumbledore, Janet McTeer as Minerva McGonagall, Paapa Essiedu as Severus Snape, and Nick Frost as Rubeus Hagrid.
Development on a Harry Potter series was revealed to have begun by January 2021, with plans for its production to span a decade as part of a new adaptation of the books. Creatively led by showrunner Francesca Gardiner and director Mark Mylod, casting for major roles began in November 2024, and confirmation came by April 2025. A casting call for the main roles of Harry, Ron, and Hermione was issued in September 2024; after considering 40,000 actors, McLaughlin, Stout, and Stanton were announced as cast in May 2025. Principal photography began that July at Leavesden Studios in Hertfordshire, England.
The first season, titled Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and based on the novel of the same name, consists of eight episodes and is scheduled to premiere in the United States on HBO and globally on HBO Max on 25 December 2026. In May 2026, the series was renewed for a second season which will adapt the second book, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.

Premise
In the first season, Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger experience life at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, forging strong bonds of friendship as they face the growing danger posed by Lord Voldemort's return.

Cast and characters

Main
Dominic McLaughlin as Harry Potter, an 11-year-old orphan raised by his bitter uncle Vernon and aunt Petunia. When he is accepted to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, he learns of his own fame as a wizard, having survived his parents' murder at the hands of the dark wizard Lord Voldemort as an infant.
Alastair Stout as Ron Weasley, Harry's best friend at Hogwarts and the second youngest member of the Weasley wizarding family.
Arabella Stanton as Hermione Granger, a Muggle-born witch from London; she excels in Hogwarts classes, and becomes the trio's brains. Stanton was also cast as the voice of a younger Hermione Granger in the audiobook adaptations of the first three books.
John Lithgow as Albus Dumbledore, Headmaster of Hogwarts and a famous wizard who mentors Harry.
Janet McTeer as Minerva McGonagall, Professor of Transfiguration at Hogwarts and the Head of Gryffindor House.
Paapa Essiedu as Severus Snape, Professor of Potions at Hogwarts and the Head of Slytherin House who has a past with Harry's parents.
Nick Frost as Rubeus Hagrid, a half-Giant and groundskeeper at Hogwarts.
Rory Wilmot as Neville Longbottom, a fellow Gryffindor student at Hogwarts.
Lox Pratt as Draco Malfoy, a Slytherin student at Hogwarts who becomes a rival to Harry.
Leo Earley as Seamus Finnigan, a fellow Gryffindor student at Hogwarts.
Elijah Oshin as Dean Thomas, a fellow Gryffindor student at Hogwarts.
Tristan Harland as Fred Weasley, Ron's fourth oldest brother and George's twin.
Gabriel Harland as George Weasley, Ron's fifth oldest brother and Fred's twin.
Ruari Spooner as Percy Weasley, Ron's third oldest brother and a Hogwarts prefect.
Alessia Leoni as Parvati Patil, a fellow Gryffindor student at Hogwarts and twin of Padma.
Sienna Moosah as Lavender Brown, a fellow Gryffindor student at Hogwarts.
Finn Stephens as Vincent Crabbe, a fellow Slytherin student at Hogwarts.
William Nash as Gregory Goyle, a fellow Slytherin student at Hogwarts.
Warwick Davis as Filius Flitwick, Professor of Charms at Hogwarts and the Head of Ravenclaw House. Davis reprises his role from the film series.
Sirine Saba as Pomona Sprout, Professor of Herbology at Hogwarts and the Head of Hufflepuff House.

Recurring
Daniel Rigby as Vernon Dursley, Harry's abusive uncle, with whom he lives following the death of his parents.
Bel Powley as Petunia Dursley, Harry's abusive aunt, with whom he goes to live following the death of his parents.
Paul Whitehouse as Argus Filch, the mean-spirited caretaker of Hogwarts. Whitehouse previously portrayed Sir Cadogan in the 2004 film Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, though his scenes did not make the final cut.
Johnny Flynn as Lucius Malfoy, Draco's father who prizes his family's "pure" wizarding blood.
Bertie Carvel as Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic.
Luke Thallon as Quirinus Quirrell, Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts at Hogwarts.
Katherine Parkinson as Molly Weasley, Ron's mother.
Gracie Cochrane (season 1) and Bonnie Hill (season 2) as Ginny Weasley, Ron's younger sister.
Amos Kitson as Dudley Dursley, Harry's abusive cousin.
Richard Durden as Cuthbert Binns, ghost-Professor of History of Magic at Hogwarts.
Louise Brealey as Madam Hooch, the broomstick flying instructor at Hogwarts.
Bríd Brennan as Madame Poppy Pomfrey, the matron of Hogwarts hospital wing.
Leigh Gill as Griphook, a goblin employed at the Gringotts Wizarding Bank.
Anton Lesser as Garrick Ollivander, a wandmaker who owns Ollivanders in Diagon Alley.
Laila Barwick as Pansy Parkinson, a Slytherin student at Hogwarts and friend of Draco.
India Moon as Hannah Abbott, a Hufflepuff student at Hogwarts.
Orson Matthews as Oliver Wood, the Gryffindor Quidditch team Keeper and captain.
Asha Soetan as Angelina Johnson, a Gryffindor Quidditch team Chaser.
Eire Farrell as Katie Bell, a Gryffindor Quidditch team Chaser.
Serrana Su-Ling Bliss as Alicia Spinnet, a Gryffindor Quidditch team Chaser.
Ethan Smith as Lee Jordan, the Weasley twins' best friend and Quidditch commentator.
James Trevelyan Buckle as Justin Finch-Fletchley, a Hufflepuff student at Hogwarts.
Cian Eagle-Service as Ernie MacMillan, a Hufflepuff student at Hogwarts.
Jazmyn Lewin as Susan Bones, a Hufflepuff student at Hogwarts.
Anjula Murali as Padma Patil, a Ravenclaw student at Hogwarts and twin of Parvati.
Aaron Zhao as Terry Boot, a Ravenclaw student at Hogwarts.
Scarlett Archer as Penelope Clearwater, a Ravenclaw prefect at Hogwarts.
Eve Walls as Lisa Turpin, a Ravenclaw student at Hogwarts.
Oliver Croft as Marcus Flint, the Slytherin Quidditch team Chaser and captain.
James Dowell as Lucian Bole, a Slytherin Quidditch team Beater.
D’Angelou Osei-Kissiedu as Graham Montague, a Slytherin Quidditch team Chaser.
Dylan Heath as Adrian Pucey, a Slytherin Quidditch team Chaser.
Cornelius Brandreth as Terence Higgs, the Slytherin Quidditch team Seeker.
Eddison Burch as Miles Bletchley, the Slytherin Quidditch team Keeper.
Henry Medhurst as Peregrine Derrick, a Slytherin Quidditch team Beater.
Peter Serafinowicz as Peeves, a nuisance poltergeist at Hogwarts.
Kit Harington as Gilderoy Lockhart (season 2), a celebrity author and the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts.
Rafe Spall as Arthur Weasley (season 2), the Weasley's father and a Ministry of Magic employee.

Guest
Mickey McAnulty as Piers Polkiss, one of Dudley's friends.
Lambert Wilson as Nicolas Flamel, an alchemist who gained immortality through his creation of the Philosopher's stone.
Marthe Keller as Perenelle Flamel, Nicolas' wife
Naomi Wirthner as Madam Malkin, the owner of Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions at Diagon Alley
Lenny Rush as Dobby (season 2), a house-elf
Billy Barratt as Tom Riddle (season 2), the teeange Voldemort
Molly Hewitt-Richards as Moaning Myrtle (season 2), a ghost of a deceased Hogwarts student who haunts the second floor girls' bathroom.
Jasper Ambrose as Colin Creevey (season 2), a Gryffindor student.

Production
Harry Potter is a co-production by HBO, Warner Bros. Television, Brontë Film and TV, and Heyday Films. Showrunner Francesca Gardiner and director Mark Mylod serve as executive producers alongside J. K. Rowling, Neil Blair, Ruth Kenley-Letts, and David Heyman. According to Warner Bros. Discovery global streaming chief JB Perrette, the series is HBO's biggest production to date.

Background

Harry Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels written by Rowling from 1997 to 2007. From 2001 to 2011, these were adapted into eight eponymous films, with the final book, Deathly Hallows, split into two feature-length films. Both the books and films have had a notable influence on popular culture; the books have been translated into more than 80 languages, and the film series is the fourth highest-grossing film franchise of all time, with the eight films released collectively grossing over $7.7 billion worldwide.

Development
In January 2021, The Hollywood Reporter revealed that a Harry Potter television series was in early development and that HBO Max executives were looking for potential writers. HBO Max and Warner Bros. denied the report, saying there was no Harry Potter series in development at the studio or on the streaming platform. By May 2022, reports circulated about a meeting between Warner Bros. Discovery CEO David Zaslav and Rowling regarding future HBO Max projects set within the Wizarding World franchise.
In December 2022, it was reported that Warner Bros. Television CEO Channing Dungey shared plans to expand the Wizarding World franchise. In April 2023, at a Warner Bros. investors meeting, it was announced that the series was in development. Warner Bros. Discovery CEO Zaslav revealed plans for the series during a presentation for the new streaming service Max, the successor to HBO Max. The series would span a decade, and each season would be "faithful" to the book series. A search for a showrunner was under way, while David Heyman was in talks to executive produce after serving as a producer of the film series. The first season is expected to cover the entirety of the first book, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997). Rowling was confirmed as an executive producer on the series, which has caused backlash due to her views on transgender people, but HBO and HBO Max chairman and CEO Casey Bloys have reaffirmed her involvement. Neil Blair and Ruth Kenley-Letts were set as executive producers on the series by April 2023.
Deadline Hollywood stated that by February 2024, there was a shortlist of three candidates to be the series' creative leader, including Succession writer Francesca Gardiner. In June, Gardiner was hired as the showrunner and writer, and Mark Mylod was hired to direct several episodes of the series. Moreover, both of them and Heyman were announced as executive producers. As part of a strategy shift for content, Harry Potter was moved from Max streaming to HBO network release in June 2024. The series is planned to be produced for 10 consecutive years, according to comments Bloys and Zaslav made in 2023 and 2025.
In May 2026, HBO renewed the series for a second season, which is expected to cover the entirety of the second book, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998), and promoted Jon Brown to co-showrunner.

Writing
Andy Greenwald, Bijan Sheibani, Josephine Gardiner, Laura Neal, Martha Hillier, Ripley Parker, Sam Holcroft, Ted Cohen and Jon Brown serve as writers on the series, alongside Francesca Gardiner. Rowling offered positive feedback on the scripts of the first two episodes on social media in June 2025, adding she had "worked closely" with the writers; however, she was not going to get any writing credits. By November 2025, writing for the second season had already begun.

Casting
Led by casting directors Lucy Bevan and Emily Brockmann, in September 2024, a casting call was released looking for child actors to portray Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger, searching for children aged 9–11 as of April 2025 who were residents of the UK and Ireland, describing that agents were to submit "qualified performers, without regard to ethnicity, sex, disability, race, sexual orientation, and gender identity". 40,000 actors auditioned for those roles. In-person auditions were held in Manchester, Scotland, Ireland and Cardiff.
By December 2024, a decision on the casting of the main characters was expected to be reached "relatively soon". In May 2025, Dominic McLaughlin, Alastair Stout, and Arabella Stanton were cast as Harry, Ron and Hermione. McLaughlin auditioned in Glasgow with a poem he had written about a weekend in his life, convicing casting directors with his "quiet confidence." Bevan commented: "He's skeptical of the adult world. He's got a vulnerability and a melancholy and a solitary quality to him." Stout auditioned in Manchester, with the directors finding him "charming and funny from the word 'go." Stanton auditioned in London, performing William Ernest Henley's poem Invictus (1875) and a more humorous scene.
From November to December 2024, various actors were being considered for roles in the series. These included Mark Rylance and Mark Strong for Albus Dumbledore, Paapa Essiedu for Severus Snape, Sharon Horgan and Rachel Weisz for Minerva McGonagall, and Brett Goldstein for Rubeus Hagrid. In February 2025, John Lithgow entered final negotiations to portray Dumbledore, and he announced his casting soon after. In March, Essiedu was nearing a deal to portray Snape, while Janet McTeer and Nick Frost entered negotiations to play McGonagall and Hagrid. In April 2025, Lithgow, McTeer, Essiedu, and Frost were confirmed to star in the series, with Luke Thallon and Paul Whitehouse joining the cast in recurring roles as Quirinus Quirrell and Argus Filch. In March 2026, Essiedu revealed that he had received death threats and racist abuse on social media because of the casting.
The following month, the additional cast announced were Katherine Parkinson as Molly Weasley, Lox Pratt as Draco Malfoy, Johnny Flynn as Lucius Malfoy, Leo Earley as Seamus Finnigan, Alessia Leoni as Parvati Patil, Sienna Moosah as Lavender Brown, Bel Powley as Petunia Dursley, Daniel Rigby as Vernon Dursley, and Bertie Carvel as Cornelius Fudge. In July, Rory Wilmot and Amos Kitson were cast in the roles of Neville Longbottom and Dudley Dursley, respectively, while Louise Brealey joined as Madam Hooch, and Anton Lesser was cast as Garrick Ollivander.
In August, Gracie Cochrane, Tristan Harland, Gabriel Harland, and Ruari Spooner were revealed to have been cast as Ginny Weasley, Fred Weasley, George Weasley, and Percy Weasley, respectively. In September, Warwick Davis was announced to reprise his role of Filius Flitwick, which he previously portrayed in the film series. Additionally, Leigh Gill, Elijah Oshin, Finn Stephens, William Nash, Sirine Saba, Richard Durden, and Bríd Brennan were cast as Griphook, Dean Thomas, Vincent Crabbe, Gregory Goyle, Pomona Sprout, Cuthbert Binns and Poppy Pomfrey, respectively. In October, Lambert Wilson joined the cast as Nicolas Flamel and Marthe Keller as Perenelle Flamel. In March 2026, casting announcements for many Hogwarts students were announced. In May, it was announced Cochrane would not be returning to play Ginny for the second season due to "unforeseen circumstances". In June, Peter Serafinowicz was cast as Peeves. In August, Nicholas Hoult was cast as Gilderoy Lockhart. Hoult ultimately had to exit the project due to scheduling conflicts, and was replaced by Kit Harington. In September, Billy Barratt and Lenny Rush were respectively cast as Tom Riddle and Dobby, while Bonnie Hill was announced as the new actress to portray Ginny. In the same month, Rafe Spall, Molly Hewitt-Richards, and Jasper Ambrose were cast respectively as Arthur Weasley, Moaning Myrtle, and Colin Creevey.

Design
Holly Waddington serves as the costume designer. For Muggles, she researched what people were wearing in 1991 to make them feel as true as possible. She commented that the Muggles' clothing is "pastel-orientated, very cold colours," with emphasis on synthetic fabrics. The children's Hogwarts uniforms were made mostly of wool, organic cotton shell buttons, wooden buttons and Scottish tartan.
Mara LePere-Schloop serves as the production designer. She mentioned about the "inherent desire to be rooted in naturalism." Animals' prototypes have been created using animatronics, including 10 owls with 36,000 feathers each and two rats playing Scabbers.

Filming

Principal photography began on 14 July 2025, under the working title Dark Train, at Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden in Watford, Hertfordshire, where the original eight Harry Potter films were also filmed, with Mylod, Jessica Hobbs, Lucy Forbes, and Benjamin Caron as directors, and Adriano Goldman, Christophe Nuyens, and Mark Patten as cinematographers.  A temporary school for the child actors was built at the studio, designed to be used by up to 600 pupils. In May 2025, sets for the series had reportedly already begun to be built. That same month, the film crew spent over a week at the Île de Sein in Brittany, filming around the Tévennec Lighthouse. On 14 July 2025, the first photo from production was released, showing McLaughlin dressed in character. On 17 July, filming was spotted taking place at the London Zoo, with McLaughlin, Powley, Rigby, Kitson, and Mickey McAnulty dressed in character.
On 18 August, filming took place at Borough High Street, in Southwark, London, with McLaughlin and Frost present. On 24 and 25 August, filming occurred at King's Cross station with the actors playing the Weasley family. In mid-September, filming took place in Hoddesdon with Daniel Rigby present, and at Wardown Park in Luton with actors believed to be portraying Lily Potter and James Potter. The following week, Deadline confirmed a report that William, Prince of Wales and Catherine, Princess of Wales, along with their children Prince George of Wales, Princess Charlotte of Wales, and Prince Louis of Wales had visited the Hogsmeade Station set built at Windsor Great Park. In early October, scenes were shot in Cornwall, including Cadgwith, Carnglaze Caverns and Kynance Cove. On 21 October, filming took place on a rooftop in Skipton. By November, production took place in Ashridge with numerous cast members, which is also where the Quidditch World Cup scenes from the film Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005) were shot.
Filming for the first season was expected to last until mid-2026, with production on the second season set to begin in late 2026. Filming for the second season was already underway in September at Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden.

Post-production
Alexis Wajsbrot serves as the visual effects supervisor.

Music
Hans Zimmer and his music company, Bleeding Fingers Music, had been revealed to compose the score by January 2026.

Marketing
The teaser trailer was released on 25 March 2026, and became the most-viewed trailer in history for HBO and HBO Max with 277 million views in the first 48 hours. A television special, Finding Harry: The Craft Behind the Magic, was released on 5 April 2026 on HBO and HBO Max. Narrated by Nick Frost, it includes interviews with cast and crew members about producing the series, as well as behind-the-scenes footage.

Release
The series will premiere on HBO in the United States and globally on HBO Max on 25 December 2026. It was previously scheduled to premiere in early 2027 on HBO Max. The first season consists of eight episodes and is titled Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, after the title of the first novel.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter video games

The Harry Potter video games are a series of video games based on the Harry Potter novel and film series originally created by English author J. K. Rowling. Many of the Harry Potter-inspired video games are tie-ins to the film adaptations of the same name. There are multiple distinct versions for individual games.
After the success of the initial games, Warner Bros. Games expanded the series to include a pair of Lego video games and created the label Portkey Games. The games have sold over 98 million units, and grossed over $1.5 billion in video game sales and an additional $1 billion in mobile game sales; the main series received mixed reviews from critics, while the Lego games were both critically and commercially successful. Hogwarts Legacy, the latest release, has made $850 million in its first two weeks post-launch.

Development
Despite the games having a wide variety of developers, Electronic Arts developed all games from Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire until Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2.

Novel adaptations

Generally, the video game adaptations of the Harry Potter series were designed to be released to coincide with the release schedule of the film series. The first game in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, was developed by five different teams, each creating different versions for different consoles. The games were developed by Argonaut Games (PlayStation), Aspyr (Mac OS), Griptonite Games (Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance), and KnowWonder (personal computer). Two years later, Warthog Games released versions for sixth generation consoles (GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox). The version was released after the Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, and used many of the same assets. The game featured puzzles aimed at "eight- to fourteen-year-olds" and aimed to capture the mood of the novel of the same name.
During the release of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets in 2002, developer Eurocom was brought on board to create the sixth-generation console releases (GameCube, PlayStation 2 and Xbox) as well as the Game Boy Advance and the Game Boy Color release. This version included new assets specifically for the Chamber of Secrets and free-roam flying on a broomstick on the PlayStation 2 release, which was not possible on any other release. This version removed many of the puzzle sections found in the first game and replaced them with action sections and boss fights. The PC version, however, used many of the same assets as those in Philosopher's Stone, and retained a more puzzle-oriented gameplay style.
In 2004, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was released. The third instalment featured separate games for the PC version and a console release (which was this time developed by EA UK). Both of these versions made Harry, Hermione and Ron playable characters. In the PC release, Buckbeak and Hedwig were made playable as well. GameSpot likened the Game Boy Advance version of the game to Chrono Trigger and Pokémon.

In 2005, the PC compilation World of Harry Potter was released, containing the first three novel games and the Quiddich World Cup game. Following Prisoner of Azkaban, EA, specifically EA UK (which was later renamed as EA Bright Light), took charge of creating all versions of the game. The PC and Mac releases were developed as ports of the console release. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005), the style from previous titles was reduced to a more linear, level-based system, as the character followed certain scenes from the film. Multiplayer components were factored into the game's release: up to three players from the same console. This was also the first game in the series to be released on Nintendo DS.
During the development of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2007), the development team had more interaction with author J. K. Rowling when attempting to create playable card games for the series. The rules that were created were later revealed to be the official rules in canon. This release was the first in the series to include motion capture from actors in the film series, including Rupert Grint and Evanna Lynch. The release removed the multiplayer component of the previous two games; Fred and George Weasley were still playable, but only in certain locations. The game made a return to the free-roaming style of earlier games.
In 2009, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was released after originally being planned for 2008. It was pushed back six months to be released with the film of the same name. Like with the previous game, the multiplayer component was removed; Ron and Ginny Weasley were still playable, but only in certain locations. The final two games in the main series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 (2010) and Part 2 (2011), take place away from Hogwarts, and features locations such as the Ministry of Magic. These games use a stealth and combat mechanic similar to those found in modern first-person shooters. Jonathan Bunney, head of Production at EA Bright Light, stated that the final two instalments would be "darker and more action-oriented game(s)."

Other

The first retail release of a Harry Potter game outside of the film adaptations was for the Lego Creator, released in 2001 as Lego Creator: Harry Potter and the sequel, Creator: Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, released in 2002. Following the release of Chamber of Secrets, EA Games engaged game developer Magic Pockets, who created the Game Boy Advance version, to produce a video game based on Quidditch.
Due to the release schedule of the film Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, there was no main series release in 2003. Instead, Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup was released in its place. Previous games had featured Quidditch but only focused on Potter as the Seeker; Quidditch World Cup puts players in control of the team's Chasers and the rest of the team's players via mini-games. The game featured both matches played at Hogwarts, and matches played internationally.
In 2010, following a release of a special Potter-themed Lego set, Lego Harry Potter, Traveller's Tales announced that a Lego Harry Potter video game would be released, similar to releases for Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures and Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga. The series was split into two: Lego Harry Potter: Years 1–4 was released in 2010 followed by Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7 in 2011.
In 2012 and 2013, three augmented reality games were created, titled Harry Potter for Kinect, Book of Spells and Book of Potions respectively. The first was released for the Xbox 360 and used the Kinect. The latter two were both released for PlayStation 3  and used the PlayStation Move controller as well as the Wonderbook accessory for the PlayStation Eye. The Wonderbook accessory was brought out in conjuncture with Book of Spells, allowing players to see an augmented reality version of real life books.
In 2017, two new themed character packs for a Toys-to-life console video game Lego Dimensions were released. One contained Lego figurines of Harry, Voldemort, mini Ford Anglia and mini Hogwarts Express, while the other one contained figurines of Hermione and Buckbeak. At the same time, Portkey Games partnered with Jam City to release Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery in March 2018 for iOS and Android. The game was a spin off from the Harry Potter universe by setting the game before the book series, but still at Hogwarts. The game featured similar components to those of other freemium games, such as wait timers, and microtransactions.
Following the release of Pokémon Go, in 2019 Niantic announced Harry Potter: Wizards Unite, a similar augmented reality game. The game allowed players to see the game world through a smartphone.
In 2020, Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells by Zynga Inc. was released on App Store, Google Play, Amazon Kindle, and Facebook Gaming in 14 languages.
Hogwarts Legacy, an open-world, action role-playing video game and a prequel to the Harry Potter books, was released on February 10, 2023.
On April 17, 2023, it was announced that a new game, Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions, was in active development by Unbroken Studios. The game allows players to compete either in a single-player career mode, akin to a traditional sports game, or in multiplayer matches. A limited playtest was held in April of that year, with a full release in September 2024. A Nintendo Switch version was released in November of that year.
The collectible card game Harry Potter: Magic Awakened initially launched in China and Taiwan on September 9, 2021, followed by a worldwide launch on June 27, 2023. The game's American, European, and Oceanian servers were shut down for undisclosed reasons in October 2024.

Gameplay
In the novel video games, gameplay is featured around puzzle solving with some action-oriented scenes. Releases in the series generally followed the plot of the associated novel. The protagonist learns spells or other techniques from classes within Hogwarts school, which are often used to solve the puzzles at hand. While some are similar to those used in other Harry Potter media (such as "Wingardium Leviosa", used for levitating objects), other spells are unique to the video games (such as "Flipendo", described as the "knockback jinx", an attacking spell, used to push objects, or "Spongify", to make an object turn into a bounce pad).
Earlier games in the series contained "secrets" which were a countable list of hidden extras. The games contained "beans", based on "Bertie Botts every flavour beans", used as currency, and Famous Witch or Wizard cards, used as collectables. However, in later games (specifically the final two entries), entries employ first person shooter and stealth sections.

Releases

List of console, handheld and PC games

List of mobile games

Reception

Sales

Critical response

Film adaptations

The Harry Potter video game series received mixed reviews from critics. Nintendo consoles (specifically the Wii) scored higher marks than other console releases. According to media review site Metacritic, the series received its best response for the Chamber of Secrets game. Despite the game being created differently for different systems, the game was rated higher on consoles across the board against every other entry in the series.
The series was judged on its representation of the novel and film series. Detroit Free Press gave the Goblet of Fire GameCube version four out of four stars and said, "this is a masterful video game because it can be enjoyed on many levels. Younger players can simply explore this graphically rich Harry Potter world and succeed. Older players will enjoy manipulating the magic by choosing spells and skills and casting magic together with friends." However, The Sydney Morning Herald gave the game three out of five stars and stated that the series highlight "is a brief but thrilling broomstick chase against a fire-breathing dragon. An underwater interlude is less successful, although it provides variety." Frank Provo of GameSpot was very positive about the Prisoner of Azkaban GBA game's recreation of the novel; saying "The main thing to keep in mind is that Prisoner of Azkaban on the GBA offers a fun way for Harry Potter fans to step into the shoes of their favorite wizard-in-training and experience firsthand everything that happened in the third instalment of the series." Gerald Villoria of GameSpot praised the developer's efforts, for the PlayStation version, in re-creating the Hogwarts Castle and different-looking characters but said that despite the graphics being like "extremely jagged polygons."
Later entries in the series received increasingly lower scores on Metacritic, with Deathly Hallows – Part 1 being the worst rated. The magazine X-ONE (then known as X360) stated that there was "so much wrong with this game that we don't have space to list it all". Kristine Steimer of IGN scored the game a 2 out of 10, writing that the developers "failed to create anything worthy of the Harry Potter branding".

Other games

Other games based around Harry Potter have been generally praised better than the novel adaptions, especially the Lego Harry Potter games. Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4 specifically scored well: Metacritic scored the game at 79%, for its PC, PlayStation 3, and Xbox release. Greg Miller of IGN praised the game for its "gorgeous environments, clever use of the famed spells, legitimate humor and adorable references" and called it a "love letter to fans of the Boy Who Lived." The Official Nintendo Magazine gave the Wii and DS version 80%, saying that it was "one of the best Harry Potter games ever", however it lacked originality compared to previous Lego video games.
Besides the Lego Harry Potter titles, two titles were released for the PlayStation 3, using augmented reality. Book of Potions and Book of Spells both built for the Wonderbook, received mixed reviews from critics. They criticized the game's short length, but commended use of the augmented reality within the games. Alex Simmons of IGN commented that Book of Spells was "shallow and rarely compelling", but called the technology behind it "fantastic". Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, also released in 2018,  received media backlash for its use of microtransactions, despite the game being free to play. David Jagnaeux from IGN Africa reviewed the game, but called it "awful", and the "gratuitous" microtransactions "actively prevented" him from enjoying the game.

Awards
In 2002, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was nominated for three D.I.C.E. Awards in the "Console Family", "Original Musical Composition" and "PC Family" categories. Lego Harry Potter: Years 1–4 won the Kotaku "best adapted game" award in 2010, with Brian Crecente proclaiming it to be the "Best Lego Game to Date." The game was nominated for two awards in the 7th British Academy Games Awards, in the "family" and "handheld" sections. In addition, it was nominated for "Best Adapted Video Game" for the Spike Video Game Awards in 2010. The musical score of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets by Jeremy Soule received a BAFTA Award for Original Music in 2004.
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince received a BAFTA nomination in 2010 for James Hannigan's music score, and won an International Film Music Critics Association (IFMCA) Award for best video game score in 2009. Book of Spells received a nomination for "game innovation" at the BAFTA Awards in 2013. As of 2014, the Harry Potter video game series was stated to have sold $1.5 billion in sales.


================================================================================

# Harry Potter: Wizards Unite

Harry Potter: Wizards Unite was an augmented reality (AR) mobile game developed by Niantic and WB Games San Francisco, and published by Niantic, under license from Portkey Games. The game is based on the Harry Potter series and part of the Wizarding World media franchise, created by J. K. Rowling. Wizards Unite begins as the player creates their avatar and starts their journey at the player's real world location. The player character engages with the world by casting spells, discovering artefacts and facing known characters and beasts of the Wizarding World universe.
Development of Wizards Unite commenced in 2017. A beta version was released in New Zealand in April 2019, and in Australia in May 2019. It was launched for Android and iOS mobile devices on June 20, 2019. The game received mixed reviews from critics and won the Peoples' Voice Award for "Technical Achievements" at the 2020 Webby Awards. It was shut down in January 2022, after Portkey Games previously announced to end the service in November 2021.

Gameplay
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite gameplay has been described as similar to that of Pokémon Go, with players able to view the gameplay world through a smartphone. Players are able to visit real-world locations while casting spells, discovering mysterious artefacts, and encountering iconic characters and legendary beasts from the Harry Potter universe. The game allows players to fight against mythical beasts from the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts franchise. Players may choose their wizarding house, their wand, and their profession: either Professor, Auror or Magizoologist.
After creating a game account, the player makes an avatar, whose location depends on the device's geographical location. The player then travels around the real world to find "confounded" items and creatures, and "unconfound" them. The player can also stop at inns (to replenish spell energy), greenhouses (to gain potion ingredients and grow new ingredients), and fortresses (to fight dark wizards and beasts). As the player moves within their real-world surroundings, their avatar moves within the game's map.
In April 2020, Wizards Unite introduced the Knight Bus which allows players to participate in magical challenges in virtual fortresses regardless of their physical location, an answer to the worldwide lockdowns during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Development
Development of Harry Potter: Wizards Unite commenced in 2017. The game was officially announced on November 8, 2017, as an augmented reality mobile game developed by Niantic and WB Games San Francisco, with the former also acting as the publisher. The game was ultimately published under the Portkey Games license.
With Niantic's purchase of Escher Reality, the game was expected to implement new technology to allow for persistent worlds within AR. On November 14, 2018, it was confirmed that the game would be released in 2019.
On November 2, 2021, Portkey Games announced  game would be shutting down, which happened at 12:01 a.m. EST on January 31, 2022.

Release
A first gameplay video for the game was released in March 2019, showing footage defending from a dementor, and being attacked by a werewolf. On March 11, 2019, pre-registration on Google Play opened for the app as well as new in-game footage was released by Niantic. On April 17, 2019, the game was beta released in New Zealand. On April 24, 2019, an email was sent in error stating that the game would launch in Australia for beta testing. On April 26, 2019, the game launched in Australia for beta testing. But several hours later, Niantic confirmed it was another mistake and it was taken down from the App Store. The game was re-released in Australia on May 2, 2019. The game was released in the United States and the United Kingdom on June 20, 2019, a day earlier than previously announced, with additional countries expected to gain access in the days ahead.

Reception
According to review aggregator Metacritic, Harry Potter: Wizards Unite received "mixed or average" reviews, based on 15 reviews for iOS. The game received the People's Voice Award for "Technical Achievement" at the 2020 Webby Awards, while also being named as an Honoree for "Best Game Design" and a nominee for "Family & Kids".

Revenue
The game generated over US$12 million in revenue in its first month of release. The game's total revenue was estimated at US$37 million by May 2021, with 20 million downloads.


================================================================================

# Hermione Granger

Hermione Granger is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. She first appeared in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) as a first-year student on her way to Hogwarts, a school of magic. In the novel, she becomes friends with Harry Potter and Ron Weasley after they save her from a troll. Hermione often uses her quick wit, deft recall, and encyclopaedic knowledge to help her friends in perilous situations. Rowling has stated that Hermione resembles herself as a young girl.
Hermione is portrayed by Emma Watson in all eight Harry Potter films, and is set to be played by Arabella Stanton in the upcoming television series.

Character
Rowling has described Hermione as a strong female character who is bright, logical, upright, and good. Rowling was seen as a "know-it-all" in her youth, and she said Hermione was an exaggerated version of her younger self. She says that beneath Hermione's studious and sometimes bossy exterior, she is insecure and afraid of failure, similar to Rowling as a young person. Rowling said that to compensate for her feelings of inadequacy, Hermione strives to be the best at everything; she projects a confidence that irritates others.
In the novels, Hermione is described as having bushy brown hair, brown eyes and large front teeth. She is described as an exceptionally talented witch, and Rowling has called her a "borderline genius". Watson said that girls in popular media tend to "dumb themselves down", but Hermione is not afraid to be clever, which makes her an exceptional role model for girls. Scholar Mary P. Freier has noted that, throughout the Harry Potter series, Hermione uses the skills of a librarian and researcher to gather the information needed to defeat Voldemort. Freier observes that Hermione begins the series as a child "who loves the library but cannot always use it effectively", relying on the Hogwarts school librarian for help. However, as the series progresses Hermione becomes a librarian herself, according to Freier. Rowling has called Hermione the perfect expository character due to her encyclopaedic knowledge of the wizarding world. Rowling has described Hermione's classmate Luna Lovegood as the "anti-Hermione" due to the differences between them.
Hermione's first name was derived from a character in William Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale, although according to Rowling the two characters have little in common. Hermione's middle name was originally Jane, but Rowling changed it to Jean so Hermione would not have the same middle name as Dolores Jane Umbridge. Rowling considered giving Hermione the surname "Puckle", but ultimately felt the name did not suit her.
Rowling said that Hermione's parents, two Muggle dentists, are somewhat bemused by their "odd" daughter, but are proud of her nonetheless; they are the type of people who would give their daughter an unusual name to prove their cleverness. Hermione is proud of her Muggle heritage and, according to Rowling, she works at the Ministry of Magic after graduation from Hogwarts, advocating for disenfranchised populations such as House-elves and Muggle-borns. Hermione's Patronus is an otter, which is Rowling's favourite animal.

Appearances

Novels

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Hermione is introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) when she meets Harry Potter and Ron Weasley on the Hogwarts Express. After mocking Ron for his inability to perform a spell, she proves her knowledge by declaring that she has memorized all their school textbooks. At Hogwarts, Hermione annoys other students with her vast knowledge, and Harry and Ron consider her arrogant. They heartily dislike her until they rescue her from a troll; she is so thankful that she lies to protect them from punishment, thus winning their friendship. Later, Hermione's knack for logic and her penchant for library research aid the trio in their quest to locate a magical object known as the Philosopher's Stone. On their way to the Stone, Hermione solves a puzzle and defeats the dangerous Devil's Snare plant.
Rowling said she resisted requests by her editor to remove the troll scene. She explained that due to Hermione's arrogance and irritating personality during the beginning of the first novel, something "huge" was needed to catalyze her friendship with Harry and Ron.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
In Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998), Hermione develops a liking for Gilderoy Lockhart, the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. During a confrontation between the Gryffindor and Slytherin Quidditch teams, a brawl nearly ensues after Draco Malfoy calls her a "Mudblood", an insulting term for a Muggle-born wizard. Hermione concocts a Polyjuice Potion so she, Harry and Ron can infiltrate the Slytherin dormitory and collect information about the Heir of Slytherin. The boys drink the potion and take on the appearance of Malfoy's friends, but Hermione, having used a cat hair in her vial of potion, ends up looking like a cat and cannot join the mission. When a basilisk escapes from the Chamber of Secrets, Hermione successfully identifies it through library research, but is Petrified by its reflection. Though she lies incapacitated in the hospital wing, the information she found aids Harry and Ron in their quest to solve the mystery of the Chamber. Hermione is revived after Harry kills the basilisk, but is distraught to learn that all end-of-year exams have been cancelled.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999), Hermione buys a cat named Crookshanks, who takes to chasing Ron's pet rat, Scabbers. Before the start of term, McGonagall secretly gives Hermione a Time-Turner, a device which lets her travel through time to handle her busy class schedule. During the school year, tension arises between Hermione and her two best friends. Harry becomes furious with her because she told McGonagall that he got a Firebolt racing broom, which was then confiscated to be inspected for traces of dark magic. Ron is angry at her because he believes Crookshanks was responsible for Scabbers' disappearance, although Hermione maintains that Crookshanks is not to blame. Later, Hermione uses the Time-Turner to help Harry rescue Sirius Black and the hippogriff Buckbeak.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Hermione is disturbed by the way house-elves are treated in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000). She establishes the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare (SPEW) to lobby for their rights. When students from other schools of magic visit Hogwarts for the Triwizard Tournament, Hermione is asked to the Yule Ball by the Bulgarian Quidditch star Viktor Krum of Durmstrang. She later gets into a heated argument with Ron after he accuses her of "fraternising with the enemy". She supports Harry throughout the Triwizard Tournament, helping him prepare for each task. After the second task, Krum asks her to visit him in Bulgaria over the summer, but she politely declines. Near the end of the term, Hermione takes action against Rita Skeeter, a tabloid journalist and unregistered Animagus who published defamatory material about Hermione, Harry, and Hagrid.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003), Hermione becomes a Gryffindor prefect. Her new friendship with Luna Lovegood has a rocky start after Hermione criticises The Quibbler, a periodical published by Luna's father. When the Daily Prophet alleges that Harry fabricated the story of Voldemort's return, Hermione defends Harry to fellow students. She also bickers frequently with Ron. After the Ministry of Magic decrees that Hogwarts students will not be taught practical defensive magic, Hermione proposes that Harry should instruct students in defensive spells. Many students are interested in the secret practice group, which they call Dumbledore's Army. Near the end of the novel, Hermione is involved in a battle at the Department of Mysteries. She is seriously injured by the Death Eater Antonin Dolohov, but makes a full recovery.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
The new Potions professor Horace Slughorn invites Hermione to join his exclusive "Slug Club" in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005). During tryouts for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, Hermione helps Ron retain his position as keeper by sabotaging his rival, Cormac McLaggen. Hermione's romantic feelings for Ron continue to grow, and she invites him to Slughorn's Christmas party. Ron, however, has become romantically involved with Lavender Brown. Hermione feuds with Ron until he suffers a near-fatal poisoning, which frightens her enough to reconcile with him. After Dumbledore's death, Hermione and Ron both vow to stay by Harry's side regardless of what happens.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Hermione accompanies Harry and Ron on the quest to destroy Voldemort's remaining Horcruxes in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007). Before leaving home, she ensures the safety of her parents by placing a false memory charm on them, which causes them to believe they are Wendell and Monica Wilkins. She prepares for their journey by filling an enchanted purse with things they will need. She also inherits Dumbledore's copy of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, which allows her to discover secrets about the Deathly Hallows. When Hermione and Harry encounter Voldemort and his snake Nagini in Godric's Hollow, Hermione casts a spell which saves her and Harry but which breaks Harry's wand.
When Hermione, Harry and Ron are caught by Snatchers, Hermione temporarily conceals Harry's identity by disfiguring his face with a Stinging Jinx. She tries to pass herself off as a half-blood to avoid persecution, but she and her friends are recognised and taken to Malfoy Manor. Bellatrix Lestrange tortures Hermione with the Cruciatus Curse and demands to know how the trio obtained the Sword of Gryffindor. Hermione, Harry, Ron and the other prisoners being held in Malfoy Manor are eventually rescued by the house-elf Dobby. Later, Hermione impersonates Bellatrix using Polyjuice Potion in order to steal a Horcrux from Gringotts. She, Harry, and Ron fight in the Battle of Hogwarts, during which Hermione destroys the Horcrux with a basilisk fang. Hermione and Ron share their first kiss during the battle.
In the novel's epilogue, which is set nineteen years after Voldemort's death, Hermione and Ron are sending their daughter Rose Granger-Weasley off to her first year at Hogwarts. They also have a younger son named Hugo. Although the epilogue does not state that Hermione and Ron are married, news articles published after the release of Deathly Hallows refer to Hermione as Ron's wife.

Film adaptations
Emma Watson portrays Hermione in all eight of the Harry Potter film adaptations. Casting agents for the first film, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001), found the nine-year-old Watson through her Oxford theatre teacher. Watson had acted in school plays, but had no film acting experience. Although Watson had to audition a total of eight times before earning the role, J. K. Rowling supported her casting after her first screen test. Prior to casting Watson, the filmmakers considered Hatty Jones for the role.
During the early part of her career playing Hermione, Watson would get upset when the filmmakers tried to make her look "geeky" for the role, but she eventually came to enjoy it. As a girl, Watson has felt pressure to be beautiful, and she felt relieved that Hermione "doesn't care what she looks like." For Philosopher's Stone, Watson wore large fake teeth for one scene, but did not wear them for subsequent films because they made it difficult to speak.
While filming Order of the Phoenix (2007), Watson was uncertain about returning for the next film. She cited the long production schedule, attention from the public and a "lack of freedom" as reasons for not reprising her role. She eventually decided to return, saying that she could not bear to see anyone else play Hermione. Steve Kloves, who wrote the screenplay adaptations for seven of the eight films, revealed in a 2003 interview that Hermione is his favourite Harry Potter character. He said, "There's something about her fierce intellect coupled with a complete lack of understanding of how she affects people ... that I just find charming and irresistible to write."

Theatre
Hermione appears in Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, a 2016 play written by Jack Thorne from a story by Thorne, J. K. Rowling and John Tiffany. In the play, which takes place nineteen years after the events of Deathly Hallows, Hermione is the Minister for Magic. She has been portrayed on stage by the Eswatini-born actress Noma Dumezweni, known for her performances in Linda, A Raisin in the Sun and A Human Being Died That Night. Dumezweni said that playing the role was a privilege and a responsibility. The casting of a black actress led to criticism on social media, which Rowling dismissed as racism. She asserted that the novels never explicitly establish Hermione's race or skin colour. Dumezweni called the backlash "unimaginative" and said that many actors are glad she is portraying Hermione because it allows them to see a version of themselves on stage. The Independent praised the performance of Dumezweni, who received the 2017 Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her portrayal of Hermione.

Reception and impact
In the book The Ivory Tower and Harry Potter, Eliza T. Dresang discusses Hermione's role in the series and its relationship to feminist debates. Dresang begins with an analysis of Hermione's name and the role of previous characters with the same name in mythology and fiction, and the heritage Hermione has inherited from these characters due to her name. Dresang notes the parallels between Hermione and Rowling, and asserts that Hermione's "compulsion for study" helps both the character's development, making Hermione "a prime example that information brings power", and the plot of the series, as her knowledge of the wizarding world is often used to "save the day". Dresang states that "Harry and Ron are more dependent on Hermione than she is on them." However, she adds that the frequency of Hermione's crying and hysteria is not believable based on her character, and is "quite out of line with her core role in the book."
In his review of the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone, Brian Linder of IGN offered high praise to Watson, saying that she "steals the show." In another IGN article, Linder and Steve Head praised Watson's "cute and astute" portrayal of Hermione. The Daily Telegraph called Watson's performance admirable. Watson was nominated for five awards for her performance in Philosopher's Stone, winning the Young Artist Award for Leading Young Actress. She was also chosen as a 2001 Breakout Performer by Entertainment Weekly. Watson's version of the character was voted the best female film character of all time in a 2016 poll of Hollywood professionals conducted by The Hollywood Reporter.
Philip Nel of Kansas State University notes that Rowling, who worked for Amnesty International, "evokes her social activism through Hermione's passion for oppressed elves". The scholar Brycchan Carey has praised the books' abolitionist sentiments, and views Hermione's Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare as a model for young readers' political engagement.
Following the release of the final novel, Rowland Manthorpe of The Guardian felt that Hermione had failed to develop into a fully-fledged character, and remained a sensible and "swottish" caricature.
Hermione is the focus of the fan-created web-series Hermione Granger and the Quarter Life Crisis.


================================================================================

# Hogwarts

Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry () is a fictional boarding school of magic in the Harry Potter series by J. K. Rowling. It is the primary setting for the first six novels and films and also serves as a major setting in the larger Wizarding World media franchise.
In the novels, Hogwarts is described as a coeducational, secondary boarding school that enrolls children from ages eleven to eighteen. According to Rowling, any child in Britain who shows magical ability is invited to attend the school. The Wizarding World website states that Hogwarts was founded in the Highlands of Scotland sometime between the 9th and 10th century by the wizards Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw and Salazar Slytherin. Rowling has offered varying accounts of how many students are enrolled at Hogwarts at any given time.
In a 1999 interview, Rowling said she envisioned Hogwarts as a place that offers security to the orphaned Harry Potter. She said that she made Hogwarts a boarding school because many important plot events occur at night. Several writers have suggested that Rowling took the name "Hogwarts" from the 1954 book How to Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans; the book describes a fictional play titled "The Hogwarts" and a fictional school headmaster named "Hoggwart". Rowling, however, said she may have unknowingly derived the name "Hogwarts" from the name of the hogwort plant.
The word "hogwarts" also appears once in the 1939 novel Finnegans Wake by James Joyce.

Castle and grounds
Rowling has described Hogwarts as a "huge, rambling, quite scary-looking castle, with a jumble of towers and battlements". She said the castle is supported by magic. The school grounds have sloping lawns, vegetable gardens and greenhouses. There is a pitch for playing the wizard sport Quidditch, and a large wooded area known as the Forbidden Forest. There is also a lake, which is home to merpeople, grindylows and a giant squid. Wizards cannot apparate (teleport) on Hogwarts grounds, but there are several hidden passages that lead into and out of the school. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), it is explained that Muggles (non-magical people) cannot see Hogwarts because there are numerous enchantments on it.
A subterranean area of the castle known as the Chamber of Secrets is introduced in the second novel, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998). In the novel, the young student Ginny Weasley is forced to open the Chamber by the Dark wizard Voldemort. From the Chamber emerges a deadly Basilisk, which attacks students until Harry kills it. A magical room called the Room of Requirement is also located in Hogwarts. It only appears when someone needs it, and contains whatever the person requires. In Order of the Phoenix (2003), Harry holds meetings of his student group Dumbledore's Army in the Room of Requirement. In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005), Draco Malfoy uses the room to hide and repair a Vanishing Cabinet, which allows him to smuggle Voldemort's Death Eaters into Hogwarts.

Houses

When a first-year student arrives at Hogwarts, the magical Sorting Hat is placed on their head. It examines their mind and assigns them to a House based on their abilities, personality, and preferences. Hogwarts has four Houses, each named after one of the founders of the school. Throughout the school year, the Houses compete for the House Cup, gaining and losing points based on actions such as performance in class and rule violations. The House with the most points at the end of the year wins the House Cup and has its colours displayed in the Great Hall during the following school year. Each House also has its own Quidditch team that competes for the Quidditch Cup. Each House is under the authority of one of the Hogwarts professors. The four Houses are described below.

Gryffindor values courage, nerve, and chivalry. Gryffindor's mascot is a lion, their colours are red and gold, and the Head of House is Minerva McGonagall. The Gryffindor dormitories are in a high tower, and students must use a password to gain entry. According to Rowling, Gryffindor corresponds roughly to the element of fire.
Hufflepuff values hard work, patience, justice, and loyalty. Hufflepuff's mascot is a badger, their colours are yellow and black, and the Head of House is Pomona Sprout. Their dormitories are located underneath the kitchens of the Great Hall, being accessible by completing a rhythmic password on its barrel-shaped entrance. Rowling said that Hufflepuff corresponds roughly to the element of earth.
Ravenclaw values intelligence, learning, wisdom, and wit. The house mascot is an eagle in the novels, and a raven in the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts films, and their colours are blue and bronze. In the novels, the Head of Ravenclaw House is Filius Flitwick. The dormitories are in Ravenclaw Tower, and students must solve a riddle to gain entry. Ravenclaw corresponds roughly to the element of air.
Slytherin values ambition, cunning, leadership, and resourcefulness. The mascot of Slytherin is a serpent and their colours are green and silver. Severus Snape is the Head of Slytherin House until he becomes headmaster, at which point Horace Slughorn assumes the position. The Slytherin dormitories are accessed by speaking a password in front of a stone wall in the dungeons, which causes a hidden door to open. Slytherin corresponds roughly to the element of water.
Each year, two fifth-year students from each House are selected as prefects. The position grants them certain privileges and the authority to give detentions for infractions. The leaders of the student body, the head girl and head boy, are chosen from among the seventh-year students. Hogwarts students in their third year or higher are allowed to visit the nearby wizarding village of Hogsmeade.

Hogwarts Express

The Hogwarts Express is described as an express train pulled by a steam engine that transports students to and from Hogwarts. At the beginning of each school year, the train departs from the fictional Platform 9¾ at London's King's Cross station and delivers students to Hogsmeade Station. A functioning full-scale replica of the Hogwarts Express was created for The Wizarding World of Harry Potter themed area at Universal Orlando Resort. The train transports visitors from a life-size replica of Hogsmeade Village to a replica of Diagon Alley.

In film
Hogwarts is featured in the Harry Potter film adaptations. England's Alnwick Castle was used for many scenes depicting exterior parts of the school. Shots of the entire school were created by adding a digital spire to images of Durham Cathedral, which also served as a set for the interior of Hogwarts. A detailed scale model of Hogwarts was also used during production of the films.

Cultural impact
In 2008, the Independent Schools Network Rankings website featured Hogwarts on a list of the best schools in Scotland. Frank Tiarks, the managing director of the website, said Hogwarts was included on the list for fun. It was ranked as the 36th-best school, surpassing Edinburgh's Loretto School.


================================================================================

# Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide

Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide is an e-book written by J. K. Rowling, a guide to Hogwarts and its secrets. It was released on 6 September 2016 in several languages at the same time.

Publication history
This book was released at the same time as two others Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies and Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky Poltergeists as a part of a series named Pottermore Presents. It was released on 6 September 2016 in several languages at the same time.

Summary
In this guide, we find information about Hogwarts, Platform 9 3⁄4 and the Sorting Hat.

Contents
"King's Cross Station"
"Platform Nine and Three-Quarters"
"The Hogwarts Express"
"The Sorting Hat"
"Hatstall"
"Hufflepuff Common Room"
"The Marauder's Map"
"The Great Lake"
"Hogwarts School Subjects"
"Time-Turner"
"Hogwarts Ghosts"
"Ghosts"
"The Ballad of Nearly Headless Nick"
"Hogwarts Portraits"
"Sir Cadogan"
"Mirror of Erised"
"Pensieve"
"The Philosopher's Stone"
"The Sword of Gryffindor"
"The Chamber of Secrets"


================================================================================

# Hogwarts Express (Universal Orlando Resort)

The Hogwarts Express is an 1,800 mm (5 ft 10+7⁄8 in) broad gauge cable railway, people mover, and attraction within the Universal Orlando Resort in Orlando, Florida, United States. The route runs 676 meters (2,218 ft) between Hogsmeade station in the Islands of Adventure theme park and King's Cross station in the London area of the Universal Studios Florida theme park. It provides a connection between the Diagon Alley and Hogsmeade areas which, together, form The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, based on the Harry Potter film series.
The system, which was manufactured by the Doppelmayr/Garaventa Group, is operated with two replicas of the fictional Hogwarts Express. The two directions of travel show two different videos. Because the trains transport guests between stations in two separate theme parks, riders must have an admission pass valid for both theme parks, with ticket inspectors checking prior to boarding.
The Hogwarts Express soft-opened to the public on July 1, 2014, before officially opening seven days later along with the rest of the Diagon Alley expansion. The service was immediately popular and within one month of opening, one million journeys had been made.

History

The idea of creating a Hogwarts Express-related element came from Mark Woodbury, the president of Universal Creative. After the opening of the Hogsmeade attraction at the Islands of Adventure theme park in 2010, Universal began considering how to keep attendance balanced between the adjacent parks. At first, the creative team considered putting Diagon Alley within Islands of Adventure. Eventually they decided that the London and Hogsmeade environments should not be visible from each other. As a result, Woodbury proposed building Diagon Alley in Universal Studios Florida and then connecting the two Harry Potter-themed lands. Several means of transport were proposed for the connector before planners settled on the idea of the Hogwarts Express train.
In early 2011, construction surveying was spotted in the Lost Continent section of Islands of Adventure, and the resort had begun surveying visitors about a possible expansion. This led to rumors that Universal Orlando was planning to expand The Wizarding World of Harry Potter. At the end of the year, the resort announced the Jaws: The Ride would close on January 2, 2012, to make way for Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts. Almost two and a half years later, WESH-TV, the local NBC affiliate for the Orlando/Central Florida area, reported that an elevated track system had been installed at Universal Orlando and that the track ran between Hogsmeade in Islands of Adventure and a construction area in Universal Studios Florida.
In May 2013, Universal Orlando announced the expansion of Wizarding World of Harry Potter, Diagon Alley, along with the Hogwarts Express train, to be located on the former site of the Jaws attraction. By the end of August 2013, all six passenger cars and both tenders were ready to be assembled on the track. The first of the two trains was installed on the track on October 24, 2013. The second train was placed on the track in early December 2013. On December 2, 2013, Orlando Attractions Magazine, an amusement park website, spotted one of the trains being tested.
The resort previewed the interior of the Hogwarts Express in January 2014 through a live cast. In mid-March 2014, Universal Orlando Resort released further information about the ride, including concept animations. The resort announced in June 2014 that the Diagon Alley expansion, including the Hogwarts Express, would officially open to the public on July 8, 2014. A week later, Universal Orlando soft-opened the Hogwarts Express, without any announcement. Within a month of the Hogwarts Express' opening, one million riders had ridden the Hogwarts Express. It had taken approximately two and a half years to develop by a team of 150 people.

Characteristics

It is only possible to ride the Hogwarts Express after having already entered either theme park and presenting a ticket that allows admission to both of them on the same day. The train carries 30,000 passengers per day, and operates 365 days per year.

Track
Hogwarts Express is a single-track elevated cable railway running over the backlot between the two theme parks, with a two-track passing loop at the midpoint. It is 676 meters (2,218 ft) long and has a track gauge of 1,800 mm (5 ft 10+7⁄8 in). On the track, there is a haul rope and a counter rope, each with a diameter of 46 millimeters (1.8 in). The cable winding motor is at King's Cross station and has a rated load of 215 kilowatts (300 hp) and a peak power rating of 636 kilowatts (900 hp).

Trains
The Hogwarts Express uses two trains that can transport 168 passengers each, giving a total of 336 passengers per cycle. Each train is an articulated cable car formed of five sections: a replica of a steam locomotive and its tender plus a set of three passenger coaches each with seven passenger compartments. Each compartment holds up to eight seated passengers and has its own projection system instead of windows. Originally each train was planned to have two passenger coaches; the number was increased following a survey that suggested potential passengers saw the Hogwarts Express as an attraction rather than a means of transportation between the parks. The locomotive on the 70-meter-long (230 ft) trains weigh 13 metric tons (29,000 lb), the tenders weigh 15 metric tons (33,000 lb), and each passenger carriage weighs 27 metric tons (60,000 lb). Because movement of the trains is controlled by cable from an engine house, they depart and arrive at the end stations at the same time, and always reach the halfway point at the same time. The cable moves at the speed of 3.4 meters per second (12 km/h; 7.6 mph).
On both trains, the locomotive faces towards Hogsmeade station; it is not possible for the trains to face King's Cross. As a result, the Hogwarts Express departs from Hogsmeade and enters King's Cross in reverse. At each station, the platforms are located on the left side of the trains. The trains are therefore only designed to be seen from one side; the other lacks the locomotives' false driving wheels and specific detailing. Over 70 percent of the cabling in the trains are for the show effects and physically animated components.
The trains were built in Goldau, Switzerland. CWA Constructions designed both the exterior and interior of the trains to make them look as similar as possible to the Hogwarts Express seen in the Harry Potter film franchise. They are based on the steam locomotive GWR Hall class 5972 Olton Hall (as 5972 Hogwarts Castle) and were built from aluminum and glass-reinforced plastics. Afterwards, an artificial weathering process was applied to give the appearance of a historic train.
Frey AG was responsible for wiring the trains for the video and sound components. The company also installed other technical equipment that allows the trains to be controlled by a computer system.

Media

Each compartment has a curved screen where the window would be. There are two different videos, depending on the destination of the train. The special effects in both videos were by Double Negative.
In addition, shadows of characters appear on the compartment windows, which exchange dialogue. Due to Emma Watson not reprising her role as Hermione for the attraction, a voice double was hired in her place. This voice double was criticized for sounding too dissimilar to Watson; in late 2023, Universal updated Hermione's voice.
The London Symphony Orchestra recorded the music played throughout the journey at Abbey Road Studios on March 25, 2014. The music for the northbound journey is called "Connector Train – Hogsmeade to London", while the southbound journey is called "Connector Train – London to Hogsmeade".

Journey
Theme park guests may use the Hogwarts Express to travel between Hogsmeade and King's Cross in London, close to Diagon Alley. They can travel in either direction as long as the guest has purchased a Park-to-Park ticket, Annual Pass, or Seasonal Pass, which gives guests access to both of Universal Orlando's theme parks within the same day. Two different videos are provided depending on the destination of the train, both of which are approximately four minutes long.

King's Cross to Hogsmeade
The King's Cross station is built on a site that previously held the Jaws attraction. The entrance to the station, which is a quarter-scale replica of London King's Cross railway station, is located in the London area, close to Diagon Alley. Passengers enter the station building and have their admission ticket checked. They then enter a queue which takes them farther into the station building, under a split-flap departure board, and past London-related advertisements, several stacks of suitcases and a shop selling British brands of food and drink. After ascending a flight of stairs, passengers find themselves between signs for King's Cross Platform 9 and Platform 10. They can see those ahead of them walking through the "wall" forming the entrance to Platform 9+3⁄4. This effect uses the Pepper's ghost illusion. After continuing around several corners, guests arrive on Platform 9+3⁄4 to wait for the next train. After the Hogwarts Express has reversed into Platform 9+3⁄4 and the arriving passengers have disembarked, the next passengers enter one of the twenty-one compartments in the three passenger coaches.
As the train departs King's Cross, the video sequence in the compartments starts with Hedwig the owl flying alongside while passing through the outskirts of London. Hedwig flies away and Dementors arrive from over the nearby buildings. At the same time Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger pass along the corridor side of the coach looking for food. The journey enters a tunnel; upon its exit, it passes by Malfoy Manor during a stormy night. Next, the train passes through a second tunnel and the lights in the compartments go out as a Dementor enters the train and passes along the corridor; Harry Potter uses his magic to defeat the Dementor. After exiting the tunnel, riders are greeted by Rubeus Hagrid flying on a motorbike with Hogwarts in the background. As the train enters a forest, the flying Ford Anglia appears and starts driving through the terrain. The car crashes soon after and the train leaves the forest, passing by Hogwarts once again before arriving at Hogsmeade Station with Hagrid greeting passengers.
Passengers then disembark from the train, walk down a ramp past the front of the Hogwarts Express and follow a path leading to Hogsmeade.

Hogsmeade to King's Cross
At the entrance of the queue, ticket inspectors check passengers' tickets for Universal Studios. The line then leads into a forested area which leads into the Hogsmeade station building. Upon climbing a flight of steps, travelers reach the Hogsmeade station platform. Once the arriving passengers on the Hogwarts Express have left the platform, passengers waiting may then board the train and enter one of the twenty-one passenger compartments within the train.
As the train departs towards King's Cross, the video sequence in the compartments begins with Hagrid waving goodbye outside of the window. Shadows of Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger can also been seen walking down the train corridor, looking for an empty compartment. Following this, Buckbeak flies outside the window, while Hogwarts can be seen in the background. Shortly after, the train enters a forest where centaurs are running. Upon exiting the forest, Hogwarts can be seen once again in the background. Fred and George Weasley appear, flying broomsticks and playing with fireworks. The Hogwarts Express then enters a tunnel, after which riders find themselves in the middle of a storm and pass Malfoy Manor. A flash of lightning strikes a tree, providing a glimpse of Lord Voldemort. The journey then enters a second tunnel; Harry, Ron, and Hermione appear again in the train corridor. As a licorice spider crawls up the compartment door, Harry eats it (to Ron's horror) and the trio continue to walk on down the corridor. After the tunnel the journey continues into London passing by an industrial factory and then a residential area. The Knight Bus then appears; squeezing between buildings and shrinking to pass under a bridge. As the bus drives away, the train enters King's Cross station, where Alastor Moody greets passengers.
Passengers then disembark onto Platform 9+3⁄4 of King's Cross and proceed down some stairs into a 2010-era King's Cross station, before arriving at the London waterfront area, adjacent to Diagon Alley.

Reception

Robert Niles from Theme Park Insider mentioned how the attraction "broke walls". Examples included the separation of the Wizarding and Muggle worlds; how Universal made the audience the performers (in the part of the King's Cross queue where guests walk through the wall leading to Platform 9+3⁄4). He wrote: "It's become convention for theme park attractions to drop you off at or very near the same point where you boarded the ride, so it's a bit disorienting when you exit the Hogwarts Express and find that you're not only in a different train station — you're in a different theme park."
Arthur Levine from About.com was disappointed that Universal had not tried to re-create the magical aspect of guests entering Platform 9+3⁄4: "When it's time to make their own way to the platform, however, it appears to would-be wizards that they are merely entering a darkened corridor. Aside from an audible "whoosh" sound, there is, regrettably, no attempt to reproduce the magical, molecule-shifting phenomenon". He also found it awkward that the Hogwarts Express reverses into Platform 9+3⁄4 at King's Cross—although in Hogsmeade the train arrives facing forwards. Overall Levine said that the attraction does more than just making it a ride: "By making it an integral and compelling part of The Wizarding World, most guests would want to ride it to get the complete Potter experience. By making it an inter-park ride and requiring a two-park ticket to board it, Universal will surely help up-sell a lot more customers to higher-priced passes, encourage multi-day visits, increase demand for its on-property hotels, and drive business at its CityWalk dining/shopping/entertainment district".
In 2014, attendance at Universal Studios Florida increased to 8.3 million visitors, compared to 7.1 million in the previous year. Attendance at Islands of Adventure did not change. According to vice president of AECOM's economics, Brian Sands, the attendance increase at the Studios was likely due to the Diagon Alley expansion. Sands also mentioned attendance at Islands of Adventure remained the same since "visitors go to the new thing", though the Hogwarts Express likely prevented attendance from decreasing at the park.

Incidents

On October 1, 2016, a man and a 14-year-old girl were treated for burn injuries after an e-cigarette exploded on the ride.
On August 17, 2017, both Hogwarts Express trains were evacuated outside of each station. Some passengers were stranded inside the vehicles for over an hour without air conditioning. The incident happened again a week later, on August 24, 2017. Universal blamed "technical issues" for both incidents.


================================================================================

# Hogwarts Legacy

Hogwarts Legacy is a 2023 action role-playing video game developed by Avalanche Software and published by Warner Bros. Games under its Portkey Games label. It is part of the Wizarding World franchise, taking place a century before the Harry Potter novels. Players control a student enrolled at the magical Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry who attends classes, learns spells, and explores Hogwarts Castle and its surroundings. With the assistance of fellow students and professors, the protagonist embarks on a journey to uncover an ancient secret hidden within the wizarding world.
Following Warner Bros.' acquisition of Avalanche Software in 2017, Hogwarts Legacy became the studio's first project unrelated to Disney Interactive Studios since 2005. Officially announced in 2020, the game cost an estimated $150 million to produce. The storyline was designed to take place in a period largely untouched by established Wizarding World characters, offering players the opportunity to immerse themselves in their own distinct universe. Avalanche emphasised the importance of having the game resemble the Harry Potter novels, while also expanding beyond known locations to enrich the experience.
Hogwarts Legacy was highly anticipated, according to several publications. It attracted controversy over Harry Potter creator J. K. Rowling's views on transgender people and accusations of antisemitic tropes, leading to calls for a boycott. The early-access period of Hogwarts Legacy resulted in record-breaking viewership on streaming platform Twitch, making it the most-watched single-player game on the platform. Following some delays, it was released on 10 February 2023 for PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S, on 5 May 2023 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and on 14 November 2023 for Nintendo Switch. A Nintendo Switch 2 version was released on 5 June 2025.
Hogwarts Legacy received positive reviews from game critics, who praised its combat, world design, characters, variety of content, and faithfulness to the source material, but criticized its technical problems at release and lack of innovation as an open-world game. In its first two weeks, it sold over 12 million copies and generated $850 million in global sales revenue. It became one of the best-selling video games, selling 40 million copies and reaching $1 billion in total revenue. Hogwarts Legacy appeared on several publications' year-end lists and received accolades including nominations at the BAFTA Games Awards, D.I.C.E. Awards, and Grammy Awards.

Synopsis

Setting and characters
Hogwarts Legacy is set in the 1890s at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and its surrounding areas. The areas include magical village Hogsmeade and the Scottish Highlands, influenced by the Wizarding World franchise. Players take on the role of a student (voiced by Sebastian Croft or Amelia Gething) starting their studies at Hogwarts in the fifth year. The protagonist can control a mysterious form of ancient magic that threatens the stability of the wizarding world. Their mission is to discover the reasons behind the resurgence of this forgotten magic and stand against those who are trying to harness its power.
Professor Eleazar Fig (Nicholas Guy Smith), a wizard who teaches magic theory at Hogwarts, is a central ally throughout the protagonist's adventure. Other characters include Hogwarts students Amit Thakkar (Asif Ali) and Everett Clopton (Luke Youngblood), Professors Onai (Kandace Caine) and Shah (Sohm Kapila), as well as Headmaster Phineas Nigellus Black (Simon Pegg) and Professor Matilda Weasley (Lesley Nicol). The protagonist also partners with students Natsai Onai, Poppy Sweeting, Sebastian Sallow and Ominis Gaunt, who serve as companion characters. Antagonists include Ranrok, the leader of a goblin rebellion, and Victor Rookwood, the leader of a group of Dark Wizards.

Plot
The protagonist receives a letter from Professor Matilda Weasley, which confirms their attendance at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as a fifth-year student and assigns Professor Eleazar Fig as the protagonist's mentor. Fig escorts the protagonist from London to Hogwarts via a flying coach. While investigating an unknown artefact, a dragon attacks them, prompting the two to reach for a Portkey hidden inside the artefact that teleports them to the Scottish Highlands. In the Highlands, they find a ruin with a portal to Gringotts. Using the Portkey to enter an old vault, the protagonist learns they can see traces of ancient magic. The duo is confronted by a hostile goblin named Ranrok before escaping to Hogwarts, where the protagonist is sorted into one of the four houses. The protagonist learns various spells during classes and goes on a trip to Hogsmeade with a companion, where they defeat a troll sent by Ranrok. The protagonist also sneaks into the library and finds a book with missing pages. While Fig studies the book, the protagonist locates the missing pages and finds a secret room below Hogwarts known as the Map Chamber. The protagonist visits the Map Chamber several times with Fig later in the game. They talk to the portraits of four deceased Hogwarts professors who refer to themselves as the "Keepers", whose goal is to protect the secrets of ancient magic from the wizarding world.
To reveal the secrets of ancient magic, the protagonist completes four trials left by the Keepers. Each trial leads to a Pensieve, a magical device used to store and review memories. The protagonist learns from these memories about Isidora Morganach, a Hogwarts student and later professor with abilities similar to the protagonist. Isidora was in conflict with the Keepers and left behind a hidden repository of ancient magic after using it to extract negative emotions, particularly from her suffering father. The Keepers realised that Isidora was inhaling the extracted emotions to increase her own power and failed to dissuade her, forcing one of them to eliminate her with the Killing Curse. Through their other adventures, the protagonist also learns that Ranrok, the leader of an ongoing goblin rebellion against wizards, seeks to find the repository and exploit it for his own ends. He collaborates with a group of dark wizards led by Victor Rookwood, a descendant of one of the Keepers, to locate it.
After the protagonist completes all four trials, they receive a final task from the Keepers: to create a special type of magic wand from the artefacts found at the Pensieves. Fig sends the protagonist to Gerbold Ollivander, a wandmaker, to craft the special wand. As the protagonist leaves Ollivander's, they are ambushed by Rookwood, who proposes an alliance against the goblins. The protagonist refuses, resulting in a battle in which the protagonist manages to defeat him. The protagonist and Professor Fig discover the repository. Ranrok interrupts them and destroys Isidora's repository. Absorbing the ancient power, he transforms himself into a dragon, injuring Fig. The protagonist defeats Ranrok, ending the goblin rebellion, and the protagonist makes a choice between keeping the ancient magic sealed away or absorbing the power for themselves. Regardless of their choice, Fig dies, and Headmaster Phineas Nigellus Black and Professor Weasley hold a eulogy in honour of him.
The protagonist returns to finish regular school studies and prepare for the O.W.L. exams at the end of the year. They also continue to explore the castle's surrounding areas and go through adventures with companions Sebastian Sallow, Ominis Gaunt, Poppy Sweeting, and Natsai Onai if they have not completed them already. The journey ends with Weasley awarding the protagonist 100 house points for their adventure, which leads to a House Cup win for their respective house.

Gameplay
Hogwarts Legacy is an action role-playing video game played from a third-person perspective. Players create a character by customising features such as appearance, voice, and complexion. They choose whether to be housed in a witch or wizard dormitory and select one of the four Hogwarts Houses, guided by the Sorting Hat. Each Hogwarts House (Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and Slytherin) features a unique common room accessible only to its members and exclusive quests. Attending and completing classes is essential to progression, as it unlocks gameplay mechanics, such as broom flight. As the game advances, players learn to cast spells, brew potions, and master combat abilities, eventually developing a personalised combat style. Experience points are earned by completing quests and challenges, while a separate talent tree for enhancing spells and abilities unlocks as players progress through the game. Players can engage with various non-player characters (NPCs), and some of them become companions. Companions provide a series of side quests focused on relationships and can join players on select missions.

Players can explore related areas such as Hogsmeade, the Forbidden Forest, and the Room of Requirement. Hogsmeade offers a variety of shops and establishments, including the sweet shop Honeydukes and the Hog's Head tavern. The Forbidden Forest features familiar magical creatures such as centaurs and spiders. The Room of Requirement features several customisation elements, allowing players to modify the room with various objects. It can be fully personalised, and its architecture can be changed through spells to conjure, alter or delete objects. The room serves as a place to store and maintain utility items such as brewing stations and planting pots, which can also be customised. The room further features vivariums, which are areas for magical beasts. Players can tame, care for, and ride various creatures, including hippogriffs and thestrals. Once caught, these creatures can be kept in vivariums. Other magical creatures available for interaction include unicorns, kneazles, and puffskeins. Plants grown or acquired can be used in combat, such as mandrakes, which can stun enemies.
Players can explore the open-world map at their own pace. Different areas offer a range of activities and players face various enemies, such as goblins, poachers, and trolls. Certain aspects are locked behind progression milestones in the main plot. During exploration, players can acquire gear by locating treasure chests. The Revelio spell supports exploration by acting as a scanning tool to discover secrets. Players may use Floo Powder to fast travel around the map or fly with a broom.

Development
Hogwarts Legacy was developed by Avalanche Software, which Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment acquired from Disney in January 2017. That same year, Warner Bros. established the publishing label Portkey Games to manage the Wizarding World licence. The game marked Avalanche's first project unrelated to Disney Interactive Studios and its products since 2005. The game was developed by using Unreal Engine 4. J. K. Rowling, the author of the Harry Potter series, was not directly involved in its development. The total budget was estimated at $150 million.

Lead writer Moira Squier stated that the story in Hogwarts Legacy was intentionally set in a time period without established Wizarding World protagonists such as Harry Potter and Newt Scamander. This allows players to explore their own unique world within a setting reminiscent of the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts eras. While main Harry Potter characters do not appear, some familiar figures like Nearly Headless Nick and Peeves the Poltergeist make appearances. The writing team focused on creating a diverse range of characters that players could relate to and see themselves in. The team also introduced a character creator without gender options and the franchise's first transgender character, Sirona Ryan.
Boston Madsen, environmental lead for the creation of Hogwarts, emphasised the importance of creating environmental elements close to the source material from the Harry Potter books. Madsen noted that although it is Avalanche Software's version of Hogwarts, the castle remains easily recognisable. Game director Alan Tew added that they aimed to go beyond the expected areas, encouraging players to discover new locations and hidden chambers. Tew and Madsen further explained that each of the four Hogwarts house common rooms was designed to offer a unique experience, enhanced by distinct music for each house. Their goal was to create a welcoming atmosphere that fostered a sense of nostalgia and belonging.
Lead designer Troy Leavitt stated that the studio had the flexibility to select the elements that fans were most enthusiastic about. He added that Hogwarts Legacy was designed to give fans the wizarding world experience they always desired while reading the books or watching the movies, without promoting any particular agenda or message. Game designer Troy Johnson explained that advances in technology and gaming consoles made it possible to create a competent game based on the Wizarding World. The open world was designed to offer players overall freedom and to provide opportunities for crafting a highly personalised experience. Artists Jeff Bunker and Vanessa Palmer noted that they focused on five technical pillars: 4K graphics and visuals, 3D audio, activities and game assistance, the PlayStation 5 DualSense controller, and fast loading times. They referenced the use of Unreal Engine, especially its Niagara visual effects system, and the computing and rendering power of the PlayStation 5 to deliver the visual effects of spells and magic. Each spell was given its own visual language with unique casting, impact and area of effect, resulting in dozens of distinct magical effects.

Music
Chuck E. Myers, J. Scott Rakozy and Peter Murray composed the soundtrack, including additional tracks by Alexander Horowitz. Murray and Rakozy explained that the challenge of its creative process was to balance the original composition with the existing music of the Wizarding World films. One of the songs, "Overture to the Unwritten", was released ahead of the soundtrack. It was performed by the Seven Springs Symphony Orchestra & Choir and featured in a promotional music video.
In December 2022, the soundtrack's release was announced for February 2023. It was released as two digital double albums totalling 75 tracks: Hogwarts Legacy (Original Video Game Soundtrack) and Hogwarts Legacy (Study Themes from the Original Video Game Soundtrack). The soundtrack also saw a vinyl release, mastered by James Plotkin and distributed by Mondo. Music from the game was featured at the 2023 Hollywood Bowl concert in celebration of the ten-year anniversary of The Game Awards.

Release
Before any formal announcement was made, gameplay footage was leaked in 2018. Hogwarts Legacy was announced at a PlayStation 5 event in September 2020, with a planned release for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Windows, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S in 2021. It was delayed twice: first to 2022, and later to 10 February 2023. The PS4 and Xbox One versions were further delayed from February 2023 to 5 May 2023. The game was released in three versions: Standard, Deluxe, and Collector's Edition. The Deluxe Edition includes extra content like a mount, clothing set, and exclusive battle arena. The Collector's Edition includes the former's content along with a steel case, box, and a collectible "floating wand". Owners of the Standard Edition can upgrade to Deluxe by purchasing the extra content separately. Early access began on 7 February 2023 for those who pre-ordered the physical Collector's Edition or Digital Deluxe Edition. A limited edition DualSense controller, the "Revelio Controller", was released in the United States and United Kingdom to coincide with the launch. With the launch of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions of Hogwarts Legacy, an arachnophobia mode was added. It replaces regular spiders with a cartoonish design that removes their legs and adds roller skates, referencing the Harry Potter books. Den of Geek considered the update a positive addition but would have preferred an option to remove spiders as enemies entirely. A Nintendo Switch port by Shiver Entertainment was released on 14 November 2023. It was originally scheduled for 25 July 2023. To accompany the release of PlayStation 5 Pro, Hogwarts Legacy received graphics enhancements to support the console's increased power. The Nintendo Switch 2 version was released alongside the console on 5 June 2025, featuring enhanced graphics and reduced loading times.
Hogwarts Legacy drew criticism for setting its story during the Goblin Rebellion era of Wizarding World history and assigning the protagonist to suppress a goblin uprising. Goblins in the Wizarding World have previously been criticised as based on antisemitic tropes. TheGamer argued that the game suggests that goblins, as a minority, are the villains for fighting against their oppressors and seeking equal rights and freedom. Some defended the portrayal of goblins in the game and the wider Harry Potter universe. The non-governmental organisation Campaign Against Antisemitism wrote that Harry Potter's depiction of goblins is consistent with their portrayal in Western literature, and is therefore "a testament more to centuries of Christendom's antisemitism than it is to malice by contemporary artists". They also commended Rowling for being a "tireless defender of the Jewish community". Travis Northup of IGN disagreed that the game contained antisemitic tropes, stating that the story does not feature a group of goblins controlling banks or trying to seize power. Instead, it focuses on a single goblin who rebels against the Wizarding World's refusal to grant his kind access to magic.
Hogwarts Legacy became a subject of contention in response to Rowling's controversial views on transgender people. Her critics called for a boycott to support the transgender community and to impede the financial benefits she would receive from its release. Others felt that Hogwarts Legacy could be separated from Rowling's views. Transgender YouTuber Jessie Earl stated that those on each side of the debate should come to their own conclusions and that, while it was not wrong to want to play Hogwarts Legacy, those who did should not claim to support the trans community. In response to the controversy, the studio added that the development focused on creating a "rich and diverse" world that would represent all groups of people. Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment's president, David Haddad, said that Rowling has the right to hold her views. Shortly before release, a website was created with the purpose of identifying Twitch streamers who played the game. It was taken down shortly after the creator faced criticism. Some streamers decided not to stream the game, with Polygon noting that this occurred either in favour of ongoing protests or for fear of harassment. As a result of the controversy surrounding Rowling, some publications chose not to cover or review Hogwarts Legacy, and the internet forum ResetEra banned all discussion of it. Wired gave it the lowest possible score, describing the story and gameplay as mediocre and harmful. The game's viewership on Twitch peaked at a record-breaking 1.28 million concurrent viewers on 7 February. The boycott was declared unsuccessful by some publications. Den of Geek and PC Games stated that the issues with Rowling seemed to have had minimal effect on sales.

Additional content
At release, players could obtain free cosmetic items by joining the Harry Potter Fan Club and linking a WB Games account. PlayStation versions included exclusive content like the "Haunted Hogsmeade Shop" quest and the "Felix Felicis" potion recipe as a pre-order bonus. The quest features an additional dungeon, a cosmetic set, and an in-game shop, while the potion reveals gear chests on the map. The Dark Arts Pack, available in Deluxe and Collector's editions or as downloadable content (DLC), includes an exclusive mount, clothing set, and a new battle arena. From the early access release on 7 February 2023 to 24 February 2023, players could earn five exclusive cosmetic items by watching selected Hogwarts Legacy livestreams on Twitch. The items were distributed via Twitch Drops, which were granted after viewers watched streams for a specified time. The launch of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions offered the "Professor Ronen cosmetic set", with seven extra items obtainable through Twitch Drops.
Shortly after release, game director Alan Tew stated that the team focused only on the launch and did not yet plan to release additional content. In May 2024, Avalanche Studios announced a major update for 6 June, which added player-requested features like a photo mode, talent point resets, and new cosmetic items. The update also made pre-order and previously console-exclusive content available on all platforms, including the "Haunted Hogsmeade Shop" quest. In January 2025, PC-exclusive mod support was added via the Hogwarts Legacy Creator Kit. In March 2025, Bloomberg's Jason Schreier reported that Warner Bros. cancelled an unannounced story expansion that had been planned for release later in the year, alongside a Definitive Edition containing all previously released content. According to Schreier, the cancellation was in part because the company felt that the content was not substantial enough to justify the anticipated price.

Reception

Critical response

Hogwarts Legacy received "generally favourable" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic. Fellow review aggregator OpenCritic assessed that the game received "mighty" approval, being recommended by 88% of critics. In Japan, four critics from Famitsu gave it a total score of 37 out of 40.
Many critics praised the environments, visuals and overall faithfulness to the source material. GamesRadar+ complimented the world as being faithful to existing Wizarding World lore, while Destructoid appreciated the overall presentation and positive synergy with the universe. Other reviewers echoed these points, with NME writing that the world was probably the most fitting depiction for fans. Further praise was directed at the castle's level of detail. Push Square highlighted the level of atmosphere and visual presentation, finding it made aimless activities like walking around Hogwarts enjoyable. The surrounding areas set in the Scottish Highlands received similar praise.
The gameplay received mixed reactions, with praise for the variety of content but criticism regarding the open-world experience. PC Gamer praised the straightforward yet cohesive systems, such as the wizard duels and the personalised Room of Requirement. Eurogamer Germany said the attention to detail motivated players to explore the world. They highlighted the music and were impressed by the design of some of the quests and puzzles. Destructoid complimented the range of activities and unlockables but found the game sometimes unimpressive, contributing to a less than satisfactory open-world environment. NME similarly wrote that the design felt dated, which they attributed to its long development cycle. The Guardian criticised the experience as competent yet not particularly impressive. While praising the presentation for its captivating nature, they felt that the progression was derivative of other open-world examples. GameRevolution described Hogwarts Legacy as a fun but forgettable Harry Potter fan service. While they found exploring the world enjoyable, they wrote that features such as attending classes and creating potions lacked sufficient depth and lamented the absence of Quidditch.
Combat was generally praised, though critics were divided on the enemy design. PCGamesN considered it as the strongest aspect, highlighting its fluid mechanics, varied enemies, and strategic use of colour-coded spells despite the restriction of equipping only four at a time. The A.V. Club deemed it the most interesting feature and expressed that confrontations with greater difficulty provided genuinely thrilling experiences. GameSpot described the combat and spells as giving a notable feeling of control to players, though they criticised the spell-selecting controls and the unremarkable enemy design. Game Informer similarly complimented the general combat experience but lamented the enemies for lacking variety.
The narrative divided critics. Some praised the developer's handling of the narrative to tell an original story in a setting that felt overly familiar. Windows Central deemed the story compelling. Video Games Chronicle positively highlighted the writing of the more detailed side quests as some of the best of the series. Hardcore Gamer praised the story as riveting, but felt it faltered towards the end. PCMag in particular criticised the decision to have the protagonist act out a "Chosen One" role. Other reviewers found the narrative to be lacklustre and illogical at times.
The characters were mostly well received. Windows Central described them as interesting and noted that they added depth to the world. PCMag praised the voice acting for making conversations feel authentic and commended the ethnic diversity of the characters. Game Informer similarly praised the voice acting and additionally highlighted the dialogue, describing both as uniformly excellent.  IGN praised the companions for their characterisation and roles. On the other hand, Video Games Chronicle considered certain NPCs beyond Hogwarts to be lifeless. Hardcore Gamer wrote that the protagonist's rivals, Ranrok and Rookwood, failed as compelling antagonists and were inferior compared to other established Harry Potter villains. PinkNews reported that transgender character Sirona Ryan's inclusion was largely dismissed as insincere by the transgender community and their allies.
Reviewers were critical of Legacy's technical aspects at release. PC Gamer experienced brief but frequent pauses at doors and frame rate drops during uneventful moments. Eurogamer Germany noted shading issues and rigid facial expressions on character models. Many noted that the performance was affected by technical problems, including slow loading of textures, frame rate inconsistencies, visual glitches, clipping objects, and inconsistent lighting. GameStar reported performance problems overall while reviewing the PC version, especially in areas with many NPCs, but said the first patch alleviated some of these problems.

Sales
On 23 February 2023, Warner Bros. Discovery announced that Hogwarts Legacy had sold more than 12 million copies and generated $850 million in global revenue. By 5 May 2023, global sales had risen to 15 million copies, surpassing $1 billion in total earnings. The game reached 22 million units sold by the end of 2023, including approximately 2 million during the December holiday season. Sales rose to 30 million copies in October 2024 and reached 34 million copies sold by the end of March 2025. As of December 2025, Hogwarts Legacy sold 40 million copies, making it one of the best-selling video games.
In the United States, Hogwarts Legacy topped the monthly sales charts for February 2023. In the United Kingdom, it debuted and remained atop of the physical sales chart for five consecutive weeks, and fifteen weeks in total. Analysts compared its first-week sales with Elden Ring, noting increases of 80% in physical sales and 88% in digital sales. In Germany, it sold more than 600,000 copies in two and a half weeks. Across Europe, its launch was the sixth-largest for a video game since the inception of the European Monthly Charts. In Japan, Hogwarts Legacy debuted atop the software sales chart with the PlayStation 5 version selling 67,196 physical copies. It held the top spot for an additional week and had sold a total of 172,820 physical copies by 14 May 2023. The PlayStation 4 version sold 44,947 physical copies by 4 June 2023. As of 4 February 2024, the Nintendo Switch version reached 95,156 physical copies sold. On Steam, Hogwarts Legacy peaked at over 489,000 concurrent players during early access. It marked the second-highest concurrent player count for a single-player game at the time, behind only Cyberpunk 2077, which reached over 1 million concurrent players. The game later peaked at more than 879,000 concurrent players, making it the game with the eighth-highest concurrent player peak overall at the time. Steam separates pre-orders and official releases for reporting purposes, which meant Hogwarts Legacy occupied the top four spots on the platform's sales chart at some point during its first week of release.
Hogwarts Legacy was the best-selling game of 2023 in the United States, breaking a 14-year games industry streak of either a Call of Duty or a Rockstar Games release holding the top spot. It was also the eleventh best-selling game in the US in 2024. In Europe, it was the second best-selling game of 2023. Excluding EA's football game, no other game had achieved comparable unit sales in a calendar year since the launch of the European charts in 2017. The game topped the annual sales charts of 2023 in the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, and reached the top three in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and Sweden. On Steam, it was among the best-performing games of 2023.

Accolades
Before its release, Hogwarts Legacy was nominated for "Most Anticipated Game" at the Game Awards 2022 and "Most Wanted Game" at the Golden Joystick Awards 2022. Several publications listed it as one of the most anticipated games of 2023, including CNN, GameSpot, IGN, NPR, Polygon, Time, and VentureBeat. As a result of its record-breaking viewership on Twitch during early access, Hogwarts Legacy became the most-watched single-player game by peak viewers on the platform and earned a Guinness World Record.
At the 20th British Academy Games Awards, Hogwarts Legacy was longlisted in nine categories, and was ultimately nominated for the British Academy Games Award for Animation and British Academy Games Award for Family. It was nominated for "Game of the Year" and won "Best Game on Steam Deck" at The Steam Awards. At France's 2024 Pégases awards, Legacy was nominated for "Best Foreign Video Game". At Poland's 2024 Digital Dragons Awards, it was similarly nominated for "Best Foreign Game". Eurogamer Germany awarded Hogwarts Legacy as "Best Fanservice" in its 2023 awards. At the PS Blog Game of the Year Awards 2023, it was nominated in seven categories. It won "PS4 Game of the Year" and placed as runner-up in the categories "Best Use of DualSense" (Gold Trophy) and "Best Audio Design" (Silver Trophy). Hardcore Gamer nominated Hogwarts Legacy for "Best Action Game", while IGN named it a runner-up for "Best Open-World Game". It appeared on several year-end lists of 2023, including Gamepressure, Der Spiegel, BBC, The Telegraph and the longlist for the 2024 BAFTA Games Awards.

Influence and future
In its release month, Hogwarts Legacy became the most successful game in the Wizarding World franchise. The franchise also experienced a boost in engagement, with a 300% increase in traffic on Wizarding World websites. The popularity of Hogwarts Legacy influenced Warner Bros. Discovery's strategy for the wider franchise. In August 2024, Warner Bros. stated it would plan to develop further Wizarding World games, such as Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions.
In September 2024, Warner Bros. Discovery's Gunnar Wiedenfels stated that a sequel to Hogwarts Legacy would be one of the corporation's primary goals. The sequel is planned to be connected to the upcoming Harry Potter television series.


================================================================================

# Hogwarts School of Prayer and Miracles

Hogwarts School of Prayer and Miracles is a Harry Potter-based fan fiction, serially published on FanFiction.Net by an author going by Grace Ann Parsons under the username proudhousewife. The story rewrites the Harry Potter series as an Evangelical tale replacing magic with prayer and religious phenomena. The story went viral because of its extreme religious overtones and unpolished writing style, and subsequently became the target of online criticism and analysis, as well as debate over its authenticity.

Synopsis
Hogwarts School of Prayer and Miracles recasts Harry Potter as an American orphan raised by his atheist, career-driven aunt Petunia and meek uncle Vernon Dursley. Potter is converted to Christianity when Hagrid, an Evangelical missionary, knocks on the Dursleys' door and proselytizes. Potter attends Hogwarts School of Prayer and Miracles, where he learns how to use prayer as incantations from Headmaster Albus Dumbledore, and meets Dumbledore's wife Minerva and daughter Hermione. The story is interspersed with moral lessons and the author's interpretations of certain Biblical verses. The students at Hogwarts are divided into four "hats" (Gryffindor, Slytherin, Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw) based loosely on real-world Christian denominations (Evangelical Christianity, Catholicism, "lukewarm" Christianity and an "extremist" Christianity). As the plot advances, Harry and his friends uncover the evil plans of the atheist Tom Riddle (best known by his Reddit username "u/Voldemort_the_righteous_skeptic"), a figure who appears to be lobbying to make Christianity illegal.

Reception and analysis
The story went viral in 2014 and garnered an almost universally negative reaction from critics for its plot, writing, and message. Many commentators considered the work and its supposed author part of an elaborate satire, with Relevant arguing that it "smacks of an Internet hoax from a prankster curious to see if anyone will swallow his or her story." David Mikkelsen of Snopes concluded that "while there is indeed a Christian Harry Potter fanfiction story circulating the Internet, the writer’s intent was satirical and was not part of a plan to create a published set of Harry Potter books suitable for Christian readers and stripped of troublesome references to witchcraft and wizardry."
Laura Turner, writing for Religion News Service, considered it a work of satire written by an author who wanted to lampoon Evangelicalism. Turner pointed out that the author had no other online presence, and that the name "Grace Parsons" seemed like a thinly veiled gag. Commenting on the use of negative stereotypes about Evangelical Christians, Turner concluded that the work was probably a hoax.
Chris Ostendorf of The Daily Dot was critical of the writing, grammar, and plot of the work, saying that the author "makes E. L. James look like Shakespeare." David L. Garcia of SF Weekly sharply criticized it for having a poor grasp on the original source material, saying that "regardless of your beliefs, if you've read the books you're probably going to laugh at how much Grace Ann gets wrong."
Madeleine Davies of Jezebel criticized the author's "Christian-friendly" plot, including its revision of female characters, rejection of the theory of evolution, and unflattering portrayal of Christian denominations like Catholicism and Episcopalianism. Rachel Rosenbaum, writing for The State Hornet, said that it "takes once intellectual and brave female characters and demotes them to nothing more than Betty Crocker because our nurturing and loving traits, she states, 'serve… best in the home'."
Carolyn Cox of The Mary Sue took the story more seriously, calling it a "Chick tract" full of "idolatrous Weasleys, a Southern Dumbledore, and thinly-veiled comparisons between Voldemort and Obama."
In 2025, Shelby Holihan and Madeleine Malcolm adapted the story for the stage in a one-night black box performance at Crash Acting Studio.


================================================================================

# Magical objects in Harry Potter

Magical objects make frequent appearances in the Harry Potter novels and film adaptations.

Deathly Hallows

The Deathly Hallows are three very powerful and magical objects that appear in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows and most of the other books in the Harry Potter series. They are the Elder Wand, the Resurrection Stone, and the Cloak of Invisibility. The Original owners are: Antioch Peverell, Cadmus Peverell, and Ignotus Peverell respectively. According to wizarding legend, they can provide mastery over death if one person owns all three Hallows. The objects are generally remembered only as part of an in-universe fairy tale called "The Tale of the Three Brothers". According to J. K. Rowling, this fictional fairy tale is based on "The Pardoner's Tale" by Geoffrey Chaucer.
In the narrative, Harry Potter eventually comes to possess all three Hallows—the Invisibility Cloak being inherited from his father, James Potter, who is later understood to be a descendant of one of the three brothers from the story, the Resurrection Stone in the Golden Snitch bequeathed to him by Dumbledore, and the allegiance and mastery of the Elder Wand when he defeats and disarms its prior owner, Draco Malfoy, who unwittingly won it from Dumbledore just before Dumbledore's death.

The Elder Wand
The Elder Wand is described in Deathly Hallows as a legendary and extremely powerful wand made of elder wood with a core of Thestral tail hair. Harry discovers that the Elder Wand's allegiance is transferred when its owner is killed, defeated, or disarmed. Through a series of events, Voldemort comes to possess the Elder Wand, even though Harry is its true master. Unaware of the wand's loyalty to Harry, Voldemort attempts to duel him near the end of the novel. The wand refuses to kill Harry, with the result that Voldemort's curse rebounds on him, and he dies. After Voldemort's death, Harry uses the Elder Wand to repair his own broken wand. He then returns the Elder Wand to Dumbledore's tomb. In Part 2 of the film adaptation of Deathly Hallows, Harry, realizing the wand is too dangerous to fall into the wrong hands, snaps it in two and throws the pieces off a bridge.
J. K. Rowling revealed in an interview that the first working title for Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows was Harry Potter and the Elder Wand.

The Resurrection Stone
The book presents the Resurrection Stone as allowing the bearer to communicate with the dead. The stone generates the form of Harry's dead godfather, Sirius Black, who tells Harry that he and the other forms created by the stone are part of him and invisible to others. According to the fairy tale concerning the origin of the Deathly Hallows, using the Resurrection Stone drove its first owner to kill himself because he brought his late fiancée back from the dead, and she was very unhappy in the living world because she did not belong there. By the time the stone was seen in Marvolo Gaunt's possession, it had been set into a ring that bore the symbol of the Deathly Hallows, which the ignorant Gaunt believed to be the Peverell coat of arms; he used the ring to boast about his ancestry and blood purity. Harry said this is the Hallow he would desire most, as like Dumbledore he could name people he would like to communicate with again. Voldemort became aware of the ring's antiquity and eventually used it as a Horcrux, a container for part of his soul, being unaware of the stone's additional magical properties.
Dumbledore is depicted as having recovered the ring from Marvolo's estate, recognizing it as both a Horcrux and one of the Deathly Hallows. Forgetting that as a Horcrux, it was likely to be protected by curses laid by Voldemort, and blinded by personal desire, Dumbledore attempted to use the Resurrection Stone to talk to his deceased family. The curse disfigured his hand and began to spread into his body. Although Snape partly contained the spread in the damaged and blackened hand, Dumbledore was doomed to have, at most, a year left to live.
The stone is later passed to Harry through Dumbledore's will. Harry uses the Stone to summon his deceased loved ones – his parents, his godfather Sirius Black, and Remus Lupin – to comfort him and strengthen his courage, before he goes to meet his death at Voldemort's hand. The stone falls unseen from Harry's fingers in the Forbidden Forest as he reaches Voldemort's encampment. Harry survives the encounter and he and Dumbledore's portrait later agreed that Harry will neither search for the stone nor tell others where it is.

The Cloak of Invisibility
In the Harry Potter universe, an invisibility cloak is a rare type of cloak used to make the wearer invisible. Rowling's 2001 book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them states that invisibility cloaks may be crafted from Demiguise pelts. Invisibility cloaks can also be ordinary cloaks with a Disillusionment Charm or a Bedazzlement Hex placed on them. Over time, these cloaks will lose their invisibility.
In the novels, Harry owns an invisibility cloak which is later revealed to be a Hallow. Unlike other invisibility cloaks, the Cloak of Invisibility cannot be worn out by time or spells. The Hallow Cloak belonged to Ignotus Peverell and was passed down to his descendant, James Potter. After James's death, Dumbledore gives the Cloak to Harry, who uses it throughout the series to sneak around Hogwarts and other places undetected on various adventures.

Detectors

Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody's Eyeball
In the Harry Potter series, Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody lost his eye and replaced it with an enchanted glass eyeball during the First Wizarding War. With the eyeball, Moody can see through solid objects, invisibility cloaks, and the back of his own head. Following Moody's death in Deathly Hallows, the eyeball ends up in the possession of Dolores Umbridge. When Harry infiltrates the Ministry of Magic, he steals the eyeball from her office and buries it in the forest.

Foe-glass
A Foe-glass is a mirror that shows the enemies of its owner.

The Marauder's Map
In the story, the Marauder's Map is a magical map of Hogwarts created by Harry's godfather,  Sirius Black, Harry's third year Defense against the Dark Arts professor Remus Lupin, Death Eater Peter Pettigrew, and Harry's biological father, James Potter while they were students at the school. The four marauders nicknames were Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and Prongs (not respectively). In Prisoner of Azkaban, Fred and George Weasley give the map to Harry so he can travel to Hogsmeade through a hidden passageway. The map is a blank piece of parchment when not in use, but it becomes a detailed layout of Hogwarts when it is activated. It shows the locations of secret passages and instructions on how to access them. It also depicts the location of every individual at Hogwarts in real-time, including their movements.  It is opened when the individual says "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good" and closed when the individual says the phrase "mischief managed", which is also the name of the final track in that book's film adaptation.

Probity Probe
A Probity Probe detects hidden magical objects and concealment spells. Probity Probes are depicted as thin golden rods in Order of the Phoenix. After Voldemort's return, Probes are used to protect Gringotts Bank and to scan Hogwarts students for Dark objects.

Remembrall
A Remembrall is a small glass orb. It contains smoke that turns red when the person holding it has forgotten something. It does not tell the holder what has been forgotten. Neville Longbottom is sent a Remembrall by his grandmother in Philosopher's Stone.

Revealer
A Revealer is a bright red eraser, used to make invisible ink appear. It first appears in Chamber of Secrets when Hermione tries to make hidden writing appear in Tom Riddle's diary.

Secrecy Sensor
A Secrecy Sensor is a Dark detector that looks like "an extra-squiggly, golden television aerial". It vibrates when it detects concealment and lies. In Half-Blood Prince, every student and owl entering Hogwarts is inspected with Secrecy Sensors to ensure no Dark objects enter the school.

Sneakoscope
In the Harry Potter universe, a Sneakoscope serves as a Dark Arts detector. The device is described as a miniature glass spinning-top that emits shrill noises in the presence of deception, for instance, when an untrustworthy person is near or when a deceitful event takes place nearby.

Weasley family clock
The Weasleys have a special clock in their home with nine hands, one for every member of the family. Instead of telling the time, the clock reveals the location or status of each family member. The known locations are: Home, School, Work, Travelling, Lost, Hospital, Prison, and Mortal Peril.
In the sixth novel, all nine hands point to mortal peril at all times, except when someone is travelling. Mrs. Weasley takes this to mean that with Voldemort's return, everyone is always in mortal peril, but she cannot verify this as she does not know anyone else who has a clock like hers.
Various fans have re-created the clock for their own families, for example by using geofencing for mobile phones.

Horcruxes
Originally discovered by dark wizard, Herpo "The Foul". A Horcrux is an object used to store part of a wizard's soul, which protects them from death. If the body of a Horcrux owner is destroyed, that portion of the soul that had remained in the body does not pass on to the next world, but will rather exist in a non-corporeal form capable of being resurrected by another wizard, as stated in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and demonstrated in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. If all of someone's Horcruxes are destroyed, then the soul's only anchor in the material world would be the body, the destruction of which would then cause death. The creation of Horcruxes is considered the darkest of all magic.
This method was chosen by Voldemort to attain immortality. J. K. Rowling uses Horace Slughorn's expository dialogue to reveal that the creation of a Horcrux requires one to commit a murder, which, as the supreme act of evil, "rips the soul apart". After the murder, a spell is cast to infuse part of the ripped soul into an object, which then becomes a Horcrux. In the final book of the series, Hermione finds the spell in a book titled Secrets of the Darkest Art. Rowling has revealed that she intends to detail the process and spell used to create a Horcrux in her long-mentioned Harry Potter Encyclopedia.
Both inanimate objects and living organisms have been used as Horcruxes, though the latter are considered riskier to use, since a living being can move and think for itself. There is no limit to the number of Horcruxes a witch or wizard can create. As the creator's soul is divided into progressively smaller portions, they lose more of their natural humanity and the soul becomes increasingly unstable. Consequently, under very specific conditions, a soul fragment can be sealed within an object without the intention or knowledge of the creator. While the object thus affected will, like any Horcrux, preserve the immortality of the creator, it does not become a "Dark object". If a living being becomes a Horcrux it gives a measure of telepathy to both the creator and the Horcrux. For example, Voldemort has unusual control over Nagini, and consequently Nagini is able to communicate with Voldemort about the presence of Harry in Godric's Hollow in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Horcruxes made from inanimate objects cannot be destroyed by conventional means such as smashing, breaking, or burning. The Horcrux must suffer enough damage that it cannot be repaired magically. The known materials or objects that can destroy Horcruxes are Basilisk venom, the Sword of Gryffindor (which contains Basilisk venom after Harry uses it to kill a Basilisk), and Fiendfyre, which is a magical flame that cannot be extinguished unless it runs out of fuel.
Voldemort's creation of Horcruxes is central to the later storyline of the Harry Potter novels. Voldemort intended to split his soul into seven pieces, with six Horcruxes and the last piece reposing within his body. When Voldemort attacked the Potter family, and his body was destroyed by the rebounded Killing Curse, a piece of his soul splintered off and attached itself to the only living thing remaining in the room, Harry Potter, in a manner similar to a Horcrux. Voldemort went on to complete his collection of the intended six Horcruxes by turning his snake Nagini into one, thus fragmenting his soul into a total of eight (counting the one residing in his own body), not seven, pieces. By that time, though, unbeknownst to Voldemort himself, the first Horcrux (a diary) had already been destroyed, therefore all seven Horcruxes never existed together at the same point in time.
All of Voldemort's deliberately created Horcruxes were made using objects that had been important to him or that held some symbolic value. He hid some of them carefully so that no one could find and destroy them, but used Nagini to do his bidding on several occasions, and the diary was always intended to be a weapon to carry out Voldemort's plan to remove Muggle-borns from Hogwarts. In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, the discovery of Voldemort's diary is revealed as the proof that led to Dumbledore beginning the hunt for other Horcruxes, as it not only gave absolute proof that Voldemort split his soul, but also that there were likely other, better-protected artefacts.
J. K. Rowling revealed on Pottermore that Quirinus Quirrell served as a temporary Horcrux when Voldemort's soul possessed his body during Harry's first year at Hogwarts. A notable difference, however, is that the piece of soul within Quirrell was able to exist without its container, as it abandoned Quirrell and left him to die in the underground chambers.

Tom Riddle's diary
Tom Riddle (later known as Lord Voldemort) created his first Horcrux during his fifth year at Hogwarts, using his own school diary. In order to cast the spell, he murdered his fellow student Myrtle Warren. In Chamber of Secrets, Ginny Weasley becomes possessed by the fragment of Riddle's soul that is encased in the diary, which compels her to open the Chamber of Secrets. At the end of the novel, Harry saves Ginny and destroys the diary by stabbing it with a Basilisk fang.

Marvolo Gaunt's ring
Within the narrative, Voldemort created his second Horcrux using a ring owned by his grandfather, Marvolo Gaunt. He murdered his father to make this Horcrux, which is later destroyed by Albus Dumbledore, using the sword of Gryffindor. The ring contains the Resurrection Stone, one of the three Deathly Hallows.

Slytherin's locket
Voldemort created his third Horcrux using a locket that once belonged to his ancestor Salazar Slytherin. The locket had the ability to instruct his heirs where the Chamber of Secrets was located, how to open it, and how to control the basilisk inside. Voldemort murdered a Muggle to make the Horcrux. Albus Dumbledore and Harry obtain the locket in Half-Blood Prince, only to discover that it is fake. Later, Harry and his friends infiltrate the Ministry of Magic and steal the real locket from Dolores Umbridge. Ron then destroys it with the Sword of Gryffindor.

Hufflepuff's cup
Voldemort created his fourth Horcrux using a cup that once belonged to Helga Hufflepuff. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Harry and his friends break into Gringotts Wizarding Bank and steal the cup from the vault of Bellatrix Lestrange. Hermione Granger later destroys the cup in the Chamber of Secrets with a Basilisk fang also from the Chamber of Secrets.

Ravenclaw's diadem

Rowena Ravenclaw's daughter, Helena, stole her mother's diadem in an attempt to become more intelligent than her. Helena hid the diadem in Albania, where it was eventually found by Voldemort. The Dark Lord turned the diadem into his fifth Horcrux by murdering a peasant, and later sequestered it in the Room of Requirement in Hogwarts. In the novel Deathly Hallows, the diadem is destroyed by a Fiendfyre spell cast by Vincent Crabbe. In the film adaptation, Harry stabs the diadem with a Basilisk fang before Ron Weasley kicks it into the Fiendfyre.

Harry Potter

When Voldemort attempted to murder Harry as an infant, he inadvertently sealed a fragment of his soul within him in a manner similar to a Horcrux. Rowling has stated that Harry never became a proper "Dark object" since the Horcrux spell was not cast. Regardless, as with all Horcruxes, Voldemort would remain immortal so long as his soul fragment remained within Harry. That portion of Voldemort's soul is unintentionally destroyed by Voldemort himself when Harry allows Voldemort to use the killing curse upon him near the end of Deathly Hallows.
As a baby, Harry was in the room when Voldemort's fatal Killing Curse backfired. Voldemort's soul had been weakened and destabilised by his continuous murders and the creation of his previous Horcruxes. Harry became a Horcrux when a fragment of Voldemort's soul attached itself to him after the unsuccessful curse. The lightning bolt-shaped scar on Harry's forehead is a direct result of this attempted murder, and the connection that formed as a result is used to explain several important plot points. Throughout the series, Harry is able to receive insight into Voldemort's mental and emotional states, allowing the reader to eavesdrop on the series' primary antagonist. This insight is usually accompanied by pain in the scar on Harry's forehead. Through Voldemort, Harry also inherited many of Voldemort's powers and the ability to speak and understand Parseltongue. It is also revealed by Rowling in an interview that Harry's frequent pain in his scar when Voldemort is either active, nearby, or feeling strong emotions, is really the trapped bit of soul yearning to depart from Harry's body and rejoin its master's soul.
The Killing Curse used by Voldemort on Harry in the Forbidden Forest destroys the fragment of Voldemort's soul within Harry, but only sends Harry's soul into a near-death state. Harry could return to his body despite being hit by the Killing Curse from the Elder Wand because Voldemort had used Harry's blood to regain his full strength in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, and because the actual master of the Elder Wand, Draco Malfoy, had been defeated by Harry, making Harry the new master of the Elder Wand. Harry's ownership of the wand used for the curse and the Horcrux-like connection between Voldemort and Harry diminished Voldemort's curse and protected Harry from irreversible death.
While Voldemort did learn of Harry's telepathic connection, Voldemort was never aware that Harry was inadvertently carrying a fragment of his soul. With this destroyed, the connections between the two were also broken, and Harry never again felt pain in his scar. Rowling revealed Harry has also lost the ability to speak Parseltongue, though he regained the ability to understand it in Harry Potter and the Cursed Child after his scar began to hurt again following the rise of Voldemort and Bellatrix's daughter Delphi whom Harry, his son Albus, and his allies defeated and sent to Azkaban. In the epilogue of the last film, the scar has faded to an ordinary-looking scar on Harry's forehead.

Nagini

It is revealed in the story that the sixth Horcrux is Nagini, the snake Voldemort had with him constantly. This Horcrux was created while Voldemort was hiding in the forests of Albania; he used Nagini to kill, thus turning her into a Horcrux. In the last chapter of Deathly Hallows, Nagini is killed by Neville Longbottom using the sword of Godric Gryffindor. The destruction of the last remaining Horcrux made Voldemort mortal.

Legendary magical artefacts

Goblet of Fire

The Goblet of Fire is an artefact used at the beginning of every Triwizard Tournament. Each student who is of-age and wishes to compete places a piece of parchment with their name on it into the Goblet. At the designated time, the Goblet selects one champion from each of the three schools in competition.

Sword of Gryffindor
The Sword of Gryffindor is a goblin-crafted sword. It was once owned by Godric Gryffindor, and can magically present itself to any Gryffindor student who needs it. During the course of the novel series, the sword is used to kill a Basilisk and destroy three of Voldemort's Horcruxes.

Philosopher's Stone

Based upon the ancient alchemical idea of the philosopher's stone, the stone is owned by Nicolas Flamel and first mentioned in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. The stone is legendary in that it changes all metals to gold, and can be used to brew a potion called the Elixir of Life, making the drinker immortal. The Philosopher's Stone is seen only in the first and last book, although it is referenced several times throughout the series. It was destroyed at the end of the first book by Dumbledore with Flamel's agreement.
In the American version, this stone is called the Sorcerer's Stone.

Sorting Hat

The Sorting Hat is an artefact used to sort Hogwarts students into houses. At the beginning of each school year, the Hat is placed on each first-year student's head. The Hat announces whether the student will be assigned to Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw or Slytherin. In the Harry Potter films, the Sorting Hat is voiced by Leslie Phillips.

Mirrors

The Mirror of Erised

The Mirror of Erised is a mystical mirror discovered by Harry in an abandoned classroom in Philosopher's Stone. On it is inscribed "erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi". When mirrored and correctly spaced, this reads "I show not your face but your heart's desire". As "erised" reversed is "desire", it is the "Mirror of Desire". Harry, upon encountering the Mirror, can see his parents, as well as what appears to be a crowd of relatives. The last thing Harry saw in the mirror was Voldemort defeated.
Dumbledore cautions Harry that the Mirror gives neither knowledge nor truth, merely showing the viewer's deepest desire, and that men have wasted their lives away before it, entranced by what they see.
The Mirror of Erised was the final protection given to the Philosopher's Stone in the first book. Dumbledore hid the Mirror and hid the Stone inside it, knowing that only a person who wanted to find but not use the Stone would be able to obtain it. Anyone else would see themselves making an Elixir of Life or turning things to gold, rather than actually finding the Stone, and would be unable to obtain it. What happens to the mirror afterwards is unknown.

Two-way mirrors
In Order of the Phoenix, Sirius gives Harry a mirror he originally used to communicate with James while they were in separate detentions. That mirror is a part of a set of two-way mirrors that are activated by holding one of them and saying the name of the other possessor, causing his or her face to appear on the caller's mirror and vice versa. Harry receives this mirror from Sirius in a package after spending his Christmas holiday at Grimmauld Place. Harry, at first, chooses not to open the package, although he does discover the mirror after Sirius's death, by which point it is no longer functional. It makes its second appearance in Deathly Hallows when Mundungus Fletcher loots Grimmauld Place and sells Sirius's mirror to Aberforth Dumbledore, who uses it to watch out for Harry in Deathly Hallows. When Harry desperately cries for help to a shard of the magical mirror (which broke in the bottom of his trunk), a brilliant blue eye belonging to Aberforth (which Harry mistakes for Albus's eye), appears and he sends Dobby, who arrives to help Harry escape from Malfoy Manor to Shell Cottage.

Prank objects

Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes
According to the plot of the novels, Prank objects from Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes are made and designed by the owners of the shop, Fred and George, who test their new creations on themselves and other Hogwarts students.

Patented Daydream Charms are kits that put the user into a "highly realistic 30-minute daydream".
A Headless Hat creates a limited field of invisibility that covers the wearer's head, giving them the appearance of not having a head. Its counterpart is a Shield Hat, which deflects minor hexes and curses.
Trick Wands are magical fake wands that turn into a silly item (rubber chickens, tin parrots, etc.) when someone tries to use them.
Extendable Ears are long flesh-coloured strings, one end of which is inserted into a user's ear and the other end placed further away towards a conversation or sound. Much like a listening device, the user will be able to hear the sounds as if they were much closer to the source.
Portable Swamps are, as the name suggests, realistic pop-up swamps. They are first seen in Order of the Phoenix after Umbridge is named Headmistress. Fred and George set one off in a corridor, in part to distract Umbridge so Harry can use her fireplace. Umbridge is unable to remove the swamp and forces Filch to punt students across; Professor Flitwick vanishes it almost instantly later in the novel.
Decoy Detonators are described as black horn type objects that will run out of sight, and make a noise giving the user a good distraction.
There are also prank items which the Weasleys import from elsewhere, such as:

Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder, which throws an area into darkness that cannot be penetrated by wand light or any magical means, although the effect wears off in a few minutes.

Other prank objects
Other prank objects include Belch Powder, Dungbombs (which explode and cause a large and extremely smelly mess), and Ever-Bashing Boomerangs (which hit their target repeatedly after being thrown). Fanged Frisbees are quite literally normal Frisbees with fangs and are first mentioned in Goblet of Fire as one of Filch's newest restricted items during Dumbledore's start-of-term speech.

Storage receptacles

Moody's Magical Trunk

Alastor Moody is depicted as owning a strangely bewitched magical trunk. It has seven locks on it, and the trunk opens to a different assortment of objects for each lock. Most notably, though, the seventh compartment is about 10 feet (3 m) deep (possibly because of the use of an Undetectable Extension Charm), and is where Barty Crouch Jr. imprisoned the real Moody. Other compartments contain spellbooks, Dark Detectors, and Moody's invisibility cloak.

Pensieve

According to Rowling, the Pensieve is a stone basin used to review memories. Covered in mystic runes, it contains memories whose physical form is neither gas nor liquid. A witch or wizard can extract their own or another's memories, store them in the Pensieve, and review them later. It also relieves the mind when it becomes cluttered with information. Anyone can examine the memories in the Pensieve, which also allows viewers to fully immerse themselves in the memories stored within, much like a magical form of virtual reality.
Users of these devices view the memories from a third-person-point-of-view, providing a near-omniscient perspective of the events preserved. J. K. Rowling confirmed memories in the Pensieve allow one to view details of things that happened even if they did not notice or remember themselves, and stated "that's the magic of the Pensieve, what brings it alive". The memories contained in the Pensieve have the appearance of silver threads. Memories that have deteriorated due to age, or that were heavily manipulated or tampered with to alter perspectives (such as Slughorn's), may appear thick and jelly-like and offer obscured viewing. Memories are not limited to just those of humans, since Hokey the house-elf provided Dumbledore with a memory as well. It makes its last appearance in Deathly Hallows when Harry uses it to uncover the truth about Snape.
In the fourth film, the Pensieve in Dumbledore's office conforms to the description given in the novel. However, in the sixth and eighth films, it appears as a shallow metal dish, floating in midair and filled with a mercury-like liquid. During the eighth film, Harry removes it from the stone basin so he can use it to examine Snape's memories.

Transportation

Arthur Weasley's Flying Ford Anglia

The book describes Arthur Weasley as the owner of a 1960 Ford Anglia 105E, which he subsequently enchanted; consequently, the vehicle can fly, become invisible, and carry the entire Weasley family in spite of its formerly non-enchanted interior dimensions (also the Undetectable Extension Charm), among other abilities. The enchantment placed on the car also made it semi-sentient.
The 1962 Ford Anglia used in the film was acquired by Rupert Grint, who plays Ron Weasley, and is currently displayed in the National Motor Museum, Beaulieu. A total of 14 Ford Anglias were destroyed during the filming of the scene where the car crashes into the Whomping Willow.
A replica of the car in its feral state could be seen in the queue line for the now-defunct Dragon Challenge roller coaster at the Universal Studios Islands of Adventure theme park. Occasionally it blinked its headlights and honked its horn when its motion detectors sensed that guests were standing in front of it or walking by it. The replica has been integrated into Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure and can be seen sitting atop a large rock formation with its windshield wipers and headlights running while under the control of Cornish Pixies. It can also be heard blaring its horn as riders pass beneath the arch. The car appears in the Hogwarts Express attraction where it can be seen flying alongside the train before crashing in the Forbidden Forest.

Broomsticks

Broomsticks are used for transportation by witches and wizards of all ages, and for participating in the game of Quidditch in the Harry Potter universe. Their use is similar to that of flying carpets, although the latter are banned in Great Britain by the Ministry of Magic. However, they are uncomfortable for extended trips, even with a cushion charm applied, and thus many wizards favour other means of transport for those journeys.
Broomsticks are treated as a major consumer product in the wizarding world. There are numerous manufacturers and models of brooms, including Cleansweeps and Comets, all of which vary in their capabilities. These range from expensive high-performance models to toy broomsticks for young children that fly only a few feet off the ground to family-sized broomsticks that seat multiple people and include a luggage compartment below the seating area.
Since Harry plays Quidditch, his broomsticks - a Nimbus 2000 and later a Firebolt - are prominent in the series. The Nimbus 2000 was given to him by special consent of Dumbledore via Minerva McGonagall, who had chosen him as the Gryffindor Seeker. The Firebolt was given to him by his godfather Sirius Black as a Christmas gift after his Nimbus was destroyed by the Whomping Willow tree during a Quidditch match. The Firebolt remains the fastest broom in the world, having surpassed the previous record holder, the Nimbus 2001 (which Draco Malfoy owns and which his father Lucius Malfoy had given as gifts to the entire Slytherin team as a bribe to have Draco as their Seeker). The price of the Firebolt is so high it is only available upon request.

Floo Powder

In the Sorcerer's Stone, Floo Powder is a glittering powder used by wizards to travel between fireplaces that are connected to the Floo Network. The traveler throws a handful of Floo powder into the flames, then steps into the fireplace and states their intended destination. Floo powder can also be used for communication; a wizard can kneel in front of the fireplace and stick their head into the fire, which will then appear in the fire of the destination fireplace, leaving the witch or wizard free to talk. It is also known that other body parts may be transported via Floo Powder, as Umbridge almost catches Sirius the second time he converses with Harry through the Floo network. Voices can also be transmitted through the Floo Network, as seen in the Prisoner of Azkaban by Snape, who summons Lupin through his office's fireplace while interrogating Harry about the Marauder's Map.
The Floo Network is controlled by the Ministry of Magic. The Ministry also has over 700 fireplaces in its headquarters so that officials and workers can go directly to/from work without the hustle and bustle of travelling on brooms or by Portkey - or the indignity of having to flush themselves in through a public toilet, as portrayed in Deathly Hallows.
According to Pottermore, the only licensed producer of Floo Powder in Britain is Floo-Pow, a company whose Headquarters is located in Diagon Alley. No shortage of Floo Powder has ever been reported, nor does anybody know anyone who makes it. Its price has remained constant for one hundred years: two Sickles a scoop.

Hogwarts Express

The Hogwarts Express is described as a steam train which transports Hogwarts students to and from the school. It is stationed in Hogsmeade when not in use, and can be accessed only by using the magical barrier between platforms 9 and 10 at King's Cross train station (known as " Platform 9¾") in London.

Knight Bus

The Knight Bus is an enchanted bus that transports wizards. It makes its first appearance in Prisoner of Azkaban when Harry unintentionally summons it. The Knight Bus is faster than travelling by broomstick, but not as fast as near-instantaneous Floo Powder and apparating.
The bus functions as a convenient form of public transportation for wizards and witches who either prefer to use it or are unable to travel by other means. It bolts through the streets entirely invisible to Muggles and causes other objects to dodge it (instead of the other way around) for short distance-travel. For longer distances, the Knight Bus instantly leaps 100 miles (160 km) at a time, accompanied by a great bang and jolt.
The conductor of the Knight Bus is Stan Shunpike, and its driver is Ernie Prang. In the third film, Ernie is accompanied by a talking shrunken head voiced by Lenny Henry.
The actual Knight Bus seen in the film adaptation was built by grafting the top deck of a London AEC Regent III RT bus onto the top of another "RT" bus. Both buses were originally built for London Transport. A replica of the Knight Bus sits in front of the London facade at The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Studios Florida, serving as a stage for a small audience-interactive show with a Stan Shunpike look-alike and a shrunken head.

Portkeys
Portkeys are first introduced in Goblet of Fire. They are an alternative to Apparation but can also be used to transport a group of people at once. Created by using the Portus spell, a Portkey can be set to transport anybody who touches it to a designated location or to become active at a predetermined time and transport itself and anyone touching it to its set destination. It may be created for one-way, one-time use or to transport the holder to and from a particular place in a round trip; in addition, it may be set to activate at a particular time or automatically transport the first person who touches it. The creation of Portkeys is highly restricted and controlled by the Ministry.
Any object can be used as a Portkey. As a safety measure to discourage unsuspecting Muggles from picking them up and activating them, wizards are advised to use old, worthless items. Portkey objects used in the novels include a football and an old boot.

Rubeus Hagrid's Enchanted Motorbike

In the story, Sirius Black is described as having owned a flying motorbike, which he lent to Hagrid the night Harry's parents died. It is first seen when Hagrid delivers the baby Harry to Number 4, Privet Drive in the first book, and then again when Hagrid uses it to transport Harry to a safe house in the seventh volume. In Deathly Hallows, various modifications have been made to the bike by Mr. Weasley, allowing it to create a brick wall or a net that erupts from the exhaust pipe and to shoot dragon fire from the exhaust, impelling the bike's sudden acceleration. The dragon-fire feature is used to great effect by Hagrid and Harry when being chased by Voldemort; however, Mr. Weasley did warn that he was unsure of its safety and that they should use it only in an emergency. He was right to say this, as the sidecar of the motorbike, unaffected by Hagrid's magic, dislodged after the abrupt acceleration.

Time-Turner
A Time-Turner may be used for short-term time travel. Hermione receives a Time-Turner from McGonagall in Prisoner of Azkaban, enabling her to attend more than one class simultaneously. Hermione is ordered to keep it a secret from everyone, including Harry and Ron, although they notice the suspicious impossibility of her schedule and several bizarre disappearances and reappearances. Hermione reveals the secret to Harry and Ron near the end of the book, when she and Harry use the Time-Turner to save Sirius Black and Buckbeak. Strained by her heavy course load, she returns the device to McGonagall at the end of the novel. Hermione's Time-Turner resembles a gold hourglass pendant on a necklace.
Time-Turners are a significant point device in Cursed Child, where it is revealed that a principle known as Croaker's Law restricts all legal Time-Turners to travelling a maximum of five hours into the past. It is widely rumoured that Draco Malfoy's son Scorpius is the son of Lord Voldemort and that Scorpius's mother used a Time-Turner to make this possible. An illegal Time-Turner capable of travelling back years is confiscated from a Dark wizard by the Ministry of Magic (although official word remains that all Time-Turners are destroyed) and is later stolen by Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy, who intend to travel back in time to prevent the death of Cedric Diggory. Unfortunately, they quickly discover the Time-Turner is a cheaply made prototype that only takes them back for five minutes before forcibly returning them to the present. After accidentally creating (and then undoing) an alternate reality where Voldemort survived and took over the world, Albus and Scorpius resolve to destroy the Time-Turner, but are forced into another time trip by the story's villain and are left trapped in the past when the Time-Turner is destroyed. Back in the present, Draco reveals he possesses a professionally made Time-Turner (bound by neither Croaker's Law nor the five-minute flaw) - he never admitted its existence for fear it would lend credence to the rumours surrounding his son and never used it (despite being tempted by the possibility of seeing his dead wife alive again). When Albus and Scorpius are able to send a message to their parents, Draco's Time-Turner is used to rescue the boys.

Vanishing Cabinet
Two Vanishing Cabinets play a role in the novels, separately stored at Borgin and Burkes and in the Room of Requirement at Hogwarts. When they are in good working order and used properly, a person who steps into either cabinet will instantly emerge from the other.
The Vanishing Cabinet is first seen in Chamber of Secrets when Harry hides in it to elude the Malfoys after accidentally travelling to Borgin and Burkes via the Floo Network; its transportation features are not activated as he does not shut its door completely. Its Hogwarts counterpart is also mentioned in Chamber of Secrets when Nearly Headless Nick persuades Peeves the Poltergeist to drop it (thus breaking it) over Filch's office in order to help Harry escape detention for tracking in mud. It is also used in Order of the Phoenix by Fred and George Weasley when they force Montague, the Slytherin Quidditch captain and a member of Dolores Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad, into it after he tries to take house points from Gryffindor. Montague is found several days later, jammed in a toilet and badly disoriented. In Half-Blood Prince, Draco Malfoy learns of his experience, determines that the cabinet is linked to the one still at Borgin & Burkes, and repairs it to allow Death Eaters access to Hogwarts.
Though this set is the only one mentioned in the book series, the film version of Half-Blood Prince reveals that they were popular when Voldemort first came to power, as they would allow people to make a quick getaway from Voldemort and his Death Eaters in an emergency.

Writing equipment

Anti-Cheating Quill
The Anti-Cheating Quill, a quill with an anti-cheating charm on it, is first mentioned in Philosopher's Stone. In book five they are assigned to every O.W.L. student to prevent them from cheating on their written exams. It is made by George and Fred Weasley.

Auto-Answer Quill
In the novel, the Auto-Answer Quill is a quill that has been bewitched so that when the quill touches a question on a piece of parchment it writes the answer instantly. The quill is banned from the O.W.L. Examinations and the inks are checked out every time the test is on.

Blood Quill
The Blood Quill is a torture quill used by Umbridge throughout the Order of the Phoenix to punish students whom she has given detention. It is described as having an unusually sharp black nib. As the user writes, the quill magically and very painfully cuts into the back of the user's hand and uses his or her blood for ink. In the fifth book, Harry has detention with Umbridge on several occasions; he is required to write lines (I must not tell lies) and is not released from this until Umbridge believes "the message has sunk in". When carried out repeatedly over an extended period, this leads to permanent scarring, as Harry shows Scrimgeour in the last two books. The scars tingle whenever Harry hears Umbridge's name, but it is not clear whether this is psychological or akin to Harry's forehead scar hurting whenever Voldemort is active. Another victim of this form of detention is Lee Jordan; in the film adaptation of the book, members of Dumbledore's Army are forced to use these quills as well. Blood quills are considered illegal to own.

The Quill of Acceptance
According to Pottermore, the Quill of Acceptance is a magical object which detects the birth of a child with magical capabilities. It is located in Hogwarts School, where it records the children's names in a large book. Professor McGonagall consults the book and sends out the subsequent Hogwarts acceptance letters by owl once the child turns eleven. It has been made very popular due to its use in registering users for the closed beta of Pottermore.

Quick Quotes Quill
A Quick Quotes Quill is described as a stenographic tool, acid green in colour, employed by Rita Skeeter to spin the words of her subjects into a more salacious or melodramatic form. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Skeeter uses the quill to interview Harry about his participation in the Triwizard Tournament for her column in The Daily Prophet. Harry continually tries to alert her to the inaccuracy of the quill; however, she continually ignores him. Additionally, in Deathly Hallows, Rita mentions in her Daily Prophet interview concerning her posthumous biography of Dumbledore that her Quick Quotes Quill helped her to write the book so quickly after his death.

Spell-Checking Quill
In the story, the Spell-Checking Quill temporarily corrects spelling as the user writes; however, once the charm wears off it constantly misspells words, even if the user writes them correctly. The most notable example is its misspelling of Ron's name as "Roonil Wazlib" in Half-Blood Prince. It is sold through Weasley's Wizard Wheezes, the joke shop opened by Fred and George Weasley.

Other objects

Deluminator
A Deluminator is a device invented by Albus Dumbledore that can remove light from any light source. It can also return the removed light to its source. The Deluminator first appears in Philosopher's Stone when Dumbledore uses it to darken Privet Drive. In Deathly Hallows, it is bequeathed to Ron Weasley in Dumbledore's will. Later in the novel, the Deluminator serves a different function by helping Ron locate Harry and Hermione after he is separated from them. The device emits a ball of light that enters Ron's body and shows him the location of his friends.

Fake Galleon
In the novel Order of the Phoenix, the character Hermione Granger creates fake, enchanted Galleon coins that are used for communication between members of the student organisation Dumbledore's Army. The coins have numerals around the edge which display the time and date of the group's next meeting.

Howler
In the Harry Potter novels and films, a Howler is a letter sent to express extreme anger or to convey a message very loudly and publicly. When the Howler is opened, the sender's voice bellows the message at a deafening volume. The letter then self-destructs by burning.

Omnioculars
Omnioculars are presented as magical brass binoculars. Omnioculars, besides having the magnification capabilities of binoculars, have many other useful features. For example, they have the ability to slow down or replay something seen through the lenses, at the expense of the live view. They also have a play-by-play feature, where the names of moves performed by Quidditch players are shown in bright purple letters across the Omnioculars' lenses. Omnioculars also have the ability to list the names and numbers of the players, and can zero in on players rapidly.

Spellotape
Spellotape serves as magical adhesive tape. It is named after Sellotape, a popular brand which has become a generic name for transparent adhesive tape in the United Kingdom.

Wand

In the Harry Potter universe, a wand is a wooden rod used to perform spells. It is crafted by a wandmaker, who inserts a "core" into the wandwood. Common cores include phoenix tail feathers, unicorn tail hairs, and dragon heartstrings. The only wand shop depicted in the novels is Ollivanders, which is run by the wandmaker Garrick Ollivander. The Russian wandmaker Mykew Gregorovitch is mentioned several times in the novels—while Viktor Krum acknowledges Ollivander's skill, he claims that Gregorovitch's wands are the best.
In the United States, wand cores are created from the horn of river serpents, Wampus hair, Snallygaster heartstring, and Jackalope antlers, a practice originated in the 17th century by the first American wandmaker, Isolt Sayre, an Irish immigrant who founded the Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in Massachusetts.
A wand is generally considered a very personal object. Wands belonging to other wizards can be borrowed, resulting in a comparatively less potent effect. In Philosopher's Stone, Harry had to try out many wands before he found one that "chose him". Wands with cores from the same source give strange effects (Priori Incantatem) when forced to fight each other, as is the case with Harry and Voldemort's wands. In Goblet of Fire, it is revealed each of their wands contains a tail feather from Fawkes, the phoenix belonging to Dumbledore. After Priori Incantatem, the wands get to know the opposites' master, as explained in Deathly Hallows. While, according to Ollivander, any object can channel magic if the wizard is strong enough, wands are the most commonly used because of their efficiency (due to the owner's bond with the wand itself). This can explain how some wizards are able to use spells without wands (for example, retrieving an item with Accio).
Furthermore, wands are able to be won from a witch or wizard and can therefore change their allegiance. For example, when Harry takes Draco's wand at Malfoy Manor, the wand's allegiance switches to Harry, and, by extension, so does the allegiance of the Elder Wand, which has changed hands many times. Not all wands change their allegiance—when discussing Bellatrix Lestrange's wand, Ollivander describes it as "unyeilding" and Hermione finds using it "distasteful" and difficult.  Should a student be expelled from Hogwarts, their wand is confiscated and snapped in half. This type of damage is usually irreparable, although at the end of The Deathly Hallows Harry uses the Elder Wand to successfully repair his original broken wand.


================================================================================

# House system

The house system is a traditional feature of schools in the United Kingdom. The practice has since spread to Commonwealth countries as well as other former British colonies. The school is divided into units called "houses" and each student is allocated to one house at the moment of enrollment. Houses may compete with one another in sport and in other ways, thus providing a focus for group loyalty.
Historically, the house system has been associated with public schools in England, especially boarding schools, where a "house" referred to a boarding house at the school. In this case, the housemaster or housemistress in charge of the house is in loco parentis to the pupils who live in it, even though the house normally has a separate "private side" in which they can live a family life. Such an arrangement still continues in most boarding schools, while in day schools the word house is likely to refer to a grouping of pupils, rather than to a particular building.
Schools have different numbers of houses, with different numbers of students in each, depending on the arrangements adopted by the schools. Facilities such as dining halls, exercise rooms, and at some schools chapels or other spaces for religious activity may be provided on a house basis.
Houses may be named after saints, famous historical alumni or notable regional topics (e.g. in international schools, houses are sometimes named in honour of local celebrities). Former British royal houses (dynasties) are also used in the UK. Other more arbitrary names—animal names or colours, for example—are also often used. Houses are also often referred to by the original name of the building or by the name or initials of the housemistress or housemaster. Each house will usually also be identified by its own symbol, logo, or colours.
At co-educational boarding schools, there may be separate houses for boys and girls, as at the Lawrenceville School, whose house system is itself based on that of Rugby School. Students may also be grouped by year groups or status as boarders or day students. At Winchester College and Eton College, there is a separate house for foundation scholars. Where the school has boarders and day pupils like the King's School, Canterbury or Shrewsbury School, they will often be allocated to separate houses. There have also been cases, for example at Cheltenham College, of pupils being allocated to different houses according to their religion. At traditional full boarding schools such as Radley College and Harrow School, students are grouped by boarding house.

Pastoral care

In some boarding schools, a primary purpose of the house system is to provide pastoral care to the students. Separated from parents for long periods, children will rely on the school to fulfil their socio-emotional needs, in addition to meeting their basic physical care. The smaller within-school structure of the house facilitates this, by promoting personalised care, with more frequent interactions, and lower child-to-adult-carer ratios, than within the wider school. Similar benefits of closer relationships between teachers and students may occur in day schools that use house systems for this purpose.
Peer relationships and fostering of community feeling are a similar aim of school house systems, whether in boarding or day schools. One headmaster of an English-style school – Brighton College Bangkok – David Tongue, writing in an editorial,  described the team-spirit engendered by school houses this way: "This camaraderie and solidarity is second to none and the benefits of this vertical interaction, where the young look up to the elder and where the elder look out for and support the younger, are profound." In Britain, the Specialist Schools and Academies Trust [now SSAT (The Schools Network)], has endorsed use of House systems as one strategy for preventing the deterioration of children's educational and social progress, a common feature of transition from primary to secondary school.

Competition between houses
A secondary feature of house systems is the competition between houses. For example, the traditional school sports day is usually an inter-house competition. Debating competitions and charity drives are also often organised along inter-house lines. Merit points for behaviour and academic achievement may also be totalled up for comparison between houses.
Some schools have a year-long programme of inter-house events, in a variety of fields but most often sports or the arts, in which each house "hosts" an event at which all houses compete, with points contributing to the award of the House Cup at the end of the year.
Shrewsbury School and Eton College still maintain an annual bumps race between houses, which was carried on by old boys to Oxford and Cambridge colleges, both of which still race in bumps; Shrewsbury and Eton race in fours, whilst Oxford and Cambridge race in eights.
St Bartholomew's School, one of England's oldest state schools, hosts a series of sporting and arts House competitions and between 2022-24 briefly added a House Film competition.

Membership and roles

Pupils are usually assigned to houses randomly, perhaps with the aim of balancing the houses in order to increase competition.  Sometimes the assignment is based on the social and emotional needs of the student and to ensure proper peer mentoring is enhanced with the right fit of students within a house. Traditionally, however, once a pupil has been assigned to a house, any younger siblings may automatically become members of that house when they arrive at the school, but this varies from school to school. (This tradition sometimes extends to the children of former pupils.) Once a pupil has been allocated to a house they usually stay with that house as they move up through the year groups. In some schools, pupils may move to a house for senior pupils in Sixth Form.
One notable feature of the house system is the appointment of house captains, and maybe other house prefects, who exercise limited authority within the house and assist in the organisation of the house as well as events. Large schools may have a house captain for each year group (with vice-captains in the largest schools).
In boarding schools, the term housemaster  or housemistress is the title held by the member of staff responsible for pupils living in a particular house (or dormitory). In state schools, members of staff are appointed as (or volunteer to become) head of house. However, both terms can be used at either style of school for the sake of formality. In some cases, houses may have their own staff members other than housemaster or housemistress.

Adoption by US K12 Schools
House systems have gained increasing popularity in the United States, particularly over the past two decades. One of the most prominent examples of its early adoption in U.S. schools is the Ron Clark Academy, which has become widely known for using a house system to promote school spirit, positive behavior, and a sense of belonging. The school's success has inspired many others to adopt similar systems.
Unlike the traditional British model, American schools often tailor their house systems to reflect local culture and community values. House names may reference regional icons, cultural themes, or school-specific values rather than historical figures or alumni. Additionally, the systems are often used to support behavior management and social-emotional learning, especially in K-12 settings.

Other uses
The term "house system" is also used to refer to the residential college systems found in some US colleges and universities, such as Rice University, Caltech, Yale College, Harvard College, Notre Dame, and University of Chicago. These systems are based on the college systems of Oxford and Cambridge Universities in the United Kingdom, which in turn share many similarities with the house systems of British secondary schools.

Prominence in school stories
The first boarding-school story was Sarah Fielding's The Governess, or The Little Female Academy, published in 1749. The genre did not become popular until 1857, with Thomas Hughes' novel Tom Brown's School Days. The house system has since featured prominently in thousands of school stories books, with many authors writing a whole series of books such as Chalet School and Malory Towers which have been published around the world and translated into several languages. The Harry Potter books and films (re)popularized this genre, and resulted in unprecedented awareness of British boarding schools (and their house systems) in countries where they were previously largely unknown.
These stories depict the popular conception of a British boarding school rather than how modern boarding schools work in reality, and often focus on the most positive aspects. For example, loyalty to one's house is very important in real-life houses, and features prominently in many of these books. The Harry Potter books have updated the boarding school to 21st-century values, for example by depicting mixed-sex education houses. Most Britons never went to a boarding school, but have integrated their values by reading these books.
The translators of some foreign editions of the Harry Potter books had difficulties conveying the "house" concept in languages like Russian or German, because there was no word that could adequately convey the importance of belonging to a certain house, the loyalty owed to one's house, and the pride in the prizes won by one's own house. This forced translators to insert extra explanations in the dialogue, which made some foreign readers think that the house and boarding systems were a special feature of the fantasy setting rather than a real-world feature which would not need to be explained to a typical British child. The French translation does not explain the differences between the French and English real-world boarding schools, instead having the house system and the head girls and boys explained as peculiarities of Hogwarts.


================================================================================

# Lego Harry Potter

Lego Harry Potter (stylized as LEGO Harry Potter) is a Lego theme based on the film series of the same name and the eponymous novels by British author J. K. Rowling. It is licensed from Warner Bros. Entertainment Lego models of important scenes, vehicles and characters were made for the first six films and all of the published books. The first sets appeared in 2001, to coincide with the release of the first film, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. Subsequent sets were released alongside the later films, until Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. The line then went dormant for three years, with sets being released in 2010 and 2011. In 2018, it was announced that more sets based on the Harry Potter franchise (formerly known as Wizarding World) would be released, including new sets based on Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and its sequel, Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.

Overview
The main focus of the line is Harry Potter's first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as he discovers that he is a famous wizard and begins his education. Later on, sets based on other installments and spin-offs would be produced as well.
In October 2021, Matthew Lewis, who portrayed Neville Longbottom in the Harry Potter films, recreated his favorite scenes to celebrate 20 Years of Movie Magic with Lego Harry Potter.
In July 2022, Lego Con hosts Joel McHale and Vick Hope built their own Lego Hogwarts castle using building tips from Lego Harry Potter designer, Marcos Bessa. Evanna Lynch, who portrayed Luna Lovegood in the Harry Potter films, goes on a magical adventure through Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter and finds out how they inspired the current Lego Harry Potter sets.

Development
Lego Harry Potter was inspired by the Harry Potter film series. The construction toy range was based on the films and developed in collaboration with Warner Bros. Consumer Products. The construction sets were designed to recreate the story and characters of the films in Lego form.

Launch
The first Lego Harry Potter sets were launched in September 2001. In January 2004, Lego owner and CEO Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen announced a change in direction for the company, which at the time was facing a DKK 1.4 billion loss, and that the company would focus on core products and not "big, movie-related IPs such as Harry Potter". A week later, the company clarified that this did not mean any immediate "radical changes", and that the Harry Potter theme would continue. However, the theme was discontinued after 2007 for a time. The original Lego Harry Potter minifigure skin tone was yellow until April 2004 when they switched to more realistic natural skin tones.
In June 2009, it was officially announced by The Lego Group that a video game, Lego Harry Potter: Years 1–4 was in production. It was released in June 2010. Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7 was released in November 2011.
Warner Bros. and Lego announced on February 12, 2010, that six sets including Hogwarts Castle (set number: 4842), Hagrid's Hut (set number: 4738), The Burrow (set number: 4840), Hogwarts Express (set number: 4841), Dobby's Release (set number: 4736) and Quidditch Match (set number: 4737) would be released in October 2010. These sets have newly decorated minifigures and animals, including Luna Lovegood, Bellatrix Lestrange, and new owls.  Also announced was a Lego Harry Potter board game that was released in August. In 2013, The Lego Group discontinued Lego Harry Potter sets. However, a Lego Dimensions add-on pack featuring Harry Potter and Voldemort was scheduled to be released on 27 September 2016.
In 2018, it was announced that more sets based on the Harry Potter Universe would be released, starting with a set based on the Great Hall at Hogwarts.
On 28 April 2020, it was announced that more sets based on the Harry Potter Universe would be released in August 2020.
On 31 August 2020, The Lego Group announced a new set, Diagon Alley (set number: 75978), which was released the following month.
During the post-2018 reboot wave, Lego has also released two series of Lego Harry Potter Collectible Minifigures under the Lego Minifigures theme.
In 2021, the Harry Potter Hogwarts Crests set (set number: 31201) was announced. It was released on 1 January 2021 as a sub-brand of the Lego Art theme. Lego has also released more sets in the summer of 2021 to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Lego Harry Potter. More sets were released in 2022.

Construction sets

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001–2002)
The first film saw the largest number of sets, with fourteen being made in total starting 1 September 2001. Eleven were produced in 2001, with the remaining three released the following year.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002–2003)
Ten sets were produced based on the second film in the series, two of which were released the year after the second film. These sets were designed to be combined with the sets from the first film, with launch starting on 1 January 2002.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004)
The third film saw eleven sets released, starting 1 April 2004, including the first Lego Harry Potter mini set. In addition, the minifigures became flesh-toned, following Lego's universal change for licensed characters.

Mini-sets (Small Polybags)

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005)
Only four sets based on the fourth film were released, starting 1 October 2005. The Harry Potter minifigure headpiece was redesigned in this series.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2007)
Only one set was produced based on the fifth film foreshadowing the theme's assumed retirement. This was the last Harry Potter themed set until 2010, released 1 June 2007.

Revival Series (2010)
Lego revived the Harry Potter theme after a three-year gap from previous set released in 2007. These new sets were released October 1, 2010 within the UK. All sets are remakes of previous ones with the exception of one new set, The Burrow, which is based on a scene from Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.

2011
Lego released four main sets in 2011. Diagon Alley was released in January, while the other three sets were released on June 1, 2011, coinciding with the release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2. However, the Trolley, The Lab and the Mini Hogwarts Express were all promotional sets that were released in different countries at different times, which were either being given away with newspaper offers, the purchase of Diagon Alley from the Lego Shop and also with the pre-order of the game, Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7.

2016
Lego has produced a Harry Potter-themed Lego Dimensions "team pack", released in the United States on 27 September 2016. This add-on pack includes Harry Potter and Voldemort minifigures that are largely similar to the 2010/2011 versions. Key differences include a different hairpiece for Harry and a brown wand for Voldemort instead of a white wand. The add-on pack also includes smaller versions of the Weasleys' flying Ford Anglia and the Hogwarts Express engine. This "team pack" number is 71247.
An additional "fun pack" featuring Hermione Granger and Buckbeak (71348) was released on May 9, 2017. Add-on packs based on Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them were released alongside the film on 18 November 2016; these include a "story pack" containing Newt Scamander, Teddy the Niffler and a MACUSA model (71253), and a "fun pack" containing Tina Goldstein and a Swooping Evil (71257).

2018 (Focused on the Philosopher's Stone and the Chamber of Secrets)
Harry Potter sets were released on July 1, 2018, including a set based on the Great Hall in the first two movies. The theme also includes sets based on the "Fantastic Beasts" movies. Additionally, on September 1, a 6000-piece microscale Hogwarts D2C set was released for purchase.

2019 (Focused on the Prisoner of Azkaban and the Goblet of Fire)
Harry Potter sets were released on June 1, 2019.

2020 (Focused on the Order of the Phoenix and the Half-Blood Prince)
Harry Potter sets were released in Europe on June 1, 2020, and in North America on August 24, 2020.

2021
On January 1, 2021, Lego released the Harry Potter Hogwarts Crests (31201) under the Lego Art theme.

Hogwarts Moment
On January 1, 2021, 4 sets were released under the Hogwarts Moment subtheme.

20th Anniversary (Focused on the Philosopher's Stone and the Chamber of Secrets)
On April 16, 2021, Lego announced the upcoming release of new Harry Potter sets from June 1, 2021, to mark the 20th anniversary of Lego Harry Potter. Selected sets also include an exclusive golden minifigure to mark the celebration. In addition, collectible Wizard Cards based on the Chocolate Frog Cards featuring Harry Potter Universe characters were also randomly packed into the sets.

2022

Hogwarts Moment
On March 1, 2022, 2 additional sets were released under the Hogwarts Moment subtheme.

Throughout the year, additional sets based on various movies from the franchise were released.
Additionally, on August 31, a 5129-piece Hogwarts Express D2C display set was released for purchase.

2023

2024
The Hogwarts Castle line started in 2024, stating to be the most detailed Lego Hogwarts Castle to date. It is ongoing into the next several years, and will form the largest and most detailed Hogwarts Castle set yet released.

2025
The Hogwarts Castle line continues.

2026

Lego Minifigures
Since the 2018 return of the theme, Lego has released two sets of Harry Potter Collectible Minifigures Series, the first in 2018, and another in 2020.

Lego BrickHeadz sets

Video games

Lego Creator: Harry Potter
Two sandbox games were released as part of the Lego Creator series: Lego Creator: Harry Potter (2001) and Creator: Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002). Both games allow the player to build their own sets in a virtual world based on the Lego Harry Potter theme, and interact with their constructions by taking control over minifigures or creatures that have been added to the world by the player.

Lego Harry Potter Collection

In June 2009, it was officially announced by Lego that a video game, Lego Harry Potter: Years 1–4, was in production and released in June 2010. Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7 was released in November 2011. Both games were released for the PlayStation 4 on October 21, 2016, as part of the Lego Harry Potter Collection, and were also released for the Xbox One and Nintendo Switch on October 30, 2018; the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S on October 7, 2024; and the Nintendo Switch 2 on October 16th, 2026

Lego Dimensions

The crossover toys-to-life game Lego Dimensions developed by Traveller's Tales features content based on both the original Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them. A "team pack" includes an additional level that recreates the events of the original film and adds Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort as a playable characters. A "story pack" offers an extended six-level story campaign retelling the events of the Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, and includes Newt Scamander as a playable character. Additional "fun packs" add Tina Goldstein and Hermione Granger as playable characters.

Other merchandise
The Lego Harry Potter brand has also produced a plush toy collection, released in 2022.

Reception
In 2020, The Lego Group reported of the Lego Technic, Lego Star Wars, Lego Classic, Lego Disney, Lego Harry Potter and Lego Speed Champions themes, "The strong results are due to our incredible team," and that these themes had helped to push revenue for the first half of 2020 grow 7% to DKK 15.7 billion compared with the same period in 2019.
In 2019, Harry Potter and Hedwig (set number: 41615) was listed as one of The Top Ten best-selling Harry Potter toys in the UK for the 12 months ending May 2019.
In 2019, Hogwarts Great Hall (set number: 75954), Hogwarts Express (set number: 75955), Hogwarts Whomping Willow (set number: 75953), Quidditch Match (set number: 75956) and Harry Potter and Hedwig (set number: 41615) were listed on The Top Ten best-selling Harry Potter toys in the UK for the 12 months ending May 2019.
In March 2022, The Lego Group reported that the Lego City, Lego Technic, Lego Creator Expert, Lego Harry Potter and Lego Star Wars themes had earned for the full year of 2021. Revenue for the year grew 27 percent versus 2020 to DKK 55.3 billion and consumer sales grew 22 percent over the same period, outpacing the toy industry and driving market share growth globally and in largest markets.
On 28 September 2022, The Lego Group reported that the Lego Star Wars, Lego Technic, Lego Icons (formerly Creator Expert), Lego City, Lego Harry Potter and Lego Friends themes had earned for the six months ending 30 June 2022. Revenue for the period grew 17 percent to DKK 27.0 billion compared with the same period in 2021, driven by strong demand. Consumer sales grew 13 percent, significantly ahead of the toy industry, contributing to global market share growth.
In February 2023, Hogwarts Castle (set number: 71043) was listed on "The biggest Lego sets of all time" by Lego fansite Brick Fanatics.
In March 2023, The Lego Group reported that the Lego City, Lego Technic, Lego Icons, Lego Harry Potter and Lego Star Wars themes had earned for the full year of 2022. Revenue for the year grew 17 percent to DKK 64.6 billion and consumer sales grew 12 percent in 2022, achieving growth in all major market groups with especially strong performance in the Americas and Western Europe.

Awards and nominations
In 2001, Hogwarts Castle (set number: 4709) was awarded "Toy of the Year" and also "Activity Toy of the Year" by the Toy Association.
In 2010, Hogwarts Game was awarded "DreamToys" in the Games category by the Toy Retailers Association.
In 2018, Hogwarts Express and Great Hall Harry Potter were awarded "DreamToys" in the It's Showtime category by the Toy Retailers Association.
In 2019, Knight Bus was awarded "DreamToys" in the Movie Magic category by the Toy Retailers Association.
In 2019, Lego Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts Minifigure Series was awarded "Toy of the Year" and also "Collectible of the Year" by the Toy Association. Also included, Hogwarts Castle (set number: 71043) was awarded "Toy of the Year" and also "Specialty Toy of the Year" by the Toy Association.
In 2020, Hedwig (set number: 75979) was awarded "DreamToys" in the Licensed To Thrill category by the Toy Retailers Association.
In 2021, Hogwarts Chamber of Secrets (set number: 76389) was awarded "DreamToys" in the Licensed To Thrill category by the Toy Retailers Association.
In 2022, The Ministry of Magic (set number: 76403) was awarded "DreamToys" in the Film & TV Favourites category by the Toy Retailers Association.


================================================================================

# Lego Masters (Australian TV series) season 7

The seventh season of Australian reality television series Lego Masters, titled Lego Masters Australia Grand Masters of the Galaxy, began airing on 1 June 2025. Like the previous series, four Australian teams go up against six international teams who have competed in their own countries. Hamish Blake returned as host along with Ryan "The Brickman" McNaught as judge. The ten teams battle it out to win the title of Australia's LEGO Grand Master and a prize of $100,000.

Production
In October 2024, the series was renewed for a seventh season, which saw the return of past winners and finalists vs international teams who have previously competed in their homelands. In May 2025, season seven was confirmed to premiere on 1 June 2025 and would be titled Grandmasters of the Galaxy, and the contestants also announced with international teams including six international teams from Canada, China, Finland, Sweden, USA and New Zealand.

Teams

Elimination history

Team scores

Series Details

Challenge 1
Airdate: 1 June 2025
Challenge: "Bringing the Word Together" Each of the ten teams has 12 hours to build a ball contraption that transfers a ball from one team's table to the next but reflects their creative talents, but the "dwell time" of the ball on each is important to the story telling. Brickman will score each build out of 20. If the ball does not make it to the next table, the team scores zero.
Advantage:  Playing for scores for the first three builds in order to win "The Magic Brick" which will keep the team safe from the first elimination.

Challenge 2
Airdate: 2 June 2025
Challenge: "Team Birdman" Each of the five teams (two teams combined picked by randomly combining international and Oceania teams) has eight hours to build an interesting story on an existing glider plane. The glider will be launched from a 10 m high platform, in homage to the Birdman Rally. Brickman will award a score out of 20 for the aesthetics of the build and how it looks flying. The glider that flies the furthest receives a bonus five points from Hamish. Brickman also decides that if the USA and Australian team glider (bald eagle) lands relatively intact using landing wheels, he will award the team an additional five points.
Advantage: Playing for scores for the first three builds in order to win "The Magic Brick" which will keep the team safe from the first elimination.

Challenge 3
Airdate: 3 June 2025
Challenge: "What's in Toy Store" Each of the ten teams chooses an empty toy package that has the name of a toy with packaging giving clues to the toy to be built. Team NZ, chose first, because they are at the top of the leader board with 36 points. The teams have eight hours for this build and is worth 40 points.
Advantage: Playing for scores for the first three builds in order to win "The Magic Brick" which will keep the team safe from the first elimination.

Challenge 4
Airdate: 8 June 2025
Challenge: "Is it Fake?" The first elimination gives the ten teams nine hours to attempt to replicate a real object out of Lego from a regional Chinese Restaurant set. Twenty points will be granted by Brickmaster based on difficulty and realism. Sophie Monk will attempt to pick the Lego builds from a distance, but if she cannot pick the build in 90 seconds, the team earns an additional three points.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Gabby and Owen safe from the first elimination.

Challenge 5
Airdate: 9 June 2025
Challenge: "What Lurks Beneath" The second elimination gives the nine remaining teams have nine hours to build an above and below design with a base plate fixed to the top and base of a fishtank. The story must be from an assigned historical era from a randomly and the tank will be filled with water.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Dai and Jiayuan safe from the second elimination.

Challenge 6
Airdate: 10 June 2025
Challenge: "Run the Gauntlet" The third elimination gives the eight teams nine hours to construct booby traps within a base plate world (two bases plates each of tropical island, snowy mountain, jungle and desert) for a remote control vehicle (piloted by Hamish) to navigate through. Teams were ranked on the effectiveness of their booby traps and how well they were hidden.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Vidar and Albin safe from the third elimination.

Challenge 7
Airdate: 15 June 2025
Challenge: "Caught in the Act" The fourth elimination gives the seven teams nine hours to construct a crime on a base plate of a room (lounge room, study, kitchen, greenhouse, garage, music studio and rumpus room). Each room has an item assigned that is to be stolen in a crime. Aesthetics and technical ability as well as story telling are the judging criteria. Sophie Monk is used to determine if the build is understandable without explanation.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of David and G safe from the fourth elimination.

Challenge 8
Airdate: 16 June 2025
Challenge: "Fresh Food Superheroes" The fifth elimination gives the six teams nine hours to create an action scene for a food-based superhero against an archenemy. Superhero minifigs were chosen at random.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Henry and Cade safe from the fifth elimination. This is the last build where the Magic Brick is in play. The winner is guaranteed a spot in the semi-final.

Challenge 9
Airdate: 17 June 2025
Challenge: "Movie Magic" The sixth elimination gives the five teams seven hours to build life-like models of cars that will star in a movie scene. Each team chooses at random a background to film their car against. Cars will be judged on their realism.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" keeps the team of Trent and Alex safe from the sixth elimination. The winner of this build gets an advantage in the semi-finals.

Semi-final
Airdate: 22 June 2025
Challenge: "Harry Potter Night of Magic" The seventh elimination and semi-final gives the final four teams eleven hours to construct a build centered around a house from the Harry Potter books. The build consists of a hallway and a room reveal with an exciting suspenseful scene incorporating traits from the house. The houses were randomly assigned by a Lego Sorting Hat.
Advantage: "The Magic Brick" is no longer in play, however Brickman gives the team of Henry and Cade an "advantage" of one hour of help from Sophie Monk.

Grand Finale
Airdate: 23 June 2025
Grand Finale Challenge: "Free Build" The final three teams have only 28 hours to build whatever they choose. Whoever wins most of the public vote and Brickman's will gain $100,000 and the glory of being the best in the galaxy.
Voting and Judgement: 200 members of the public, along with Brickman, will determine the ultimate winners. Brickman's vote is worth 100 votes.

Ratings
Viewership data focuses on National Reach and National Total ratings instead of the five metro centres and overnight shares.


================================================================================

# Levi Pinfold

Levi Pinfold is a British artist, writer and illustrator from Gloucestershire, England, who won the Kate Greenaway Medal in 2013 for his illustrations for the picture book Black Dog. He is the illustrator for the final two books in the Harry Potter Illustrated Edition series.

Personal life
Pinfold was born in the Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire. He started drawing from a young age. He currently lives in Australia on the Sunshine Coast, Queensland, with his photographer wife. He attempts to grow vegetables in his spare time.

Career
Since graduating from Falmouth University in 2006, Pinfold has worked as a self employed illustrator.
Pinfold debuted in 2010 with the picture book The Django, inspired by jazz legend Django Reinhardt. This book earned him the Booktrust Best New Illustrators Award. Published by Templar Books in 2011, his second picture book Black Dog won the 2013 Kate Greenaway Medal.
In 2015, he illustrated Greenling, a picture book about a green baby creature suddenly appears on the Barleycorn family's farm in Australia. In 2016, he illustrated The Secret Horses of Briar Hill by Megan Shepherd. He also illustrated The Song from Somewhere Else by A. F. Harrold. In 2017, he designed the cover for Bloomsbury's 20th Anniversary Hogwarts House Edition of Harry Potter. In 2019, he illustrated The Dam by David Almond. From 2021 to 2024, he continued to illustrate many books for the authors Hannah Gold and A. F. Harrold. In March 2025, Bloomsbury announced Levi as the illustrator for the final two books in the Harry Potter Illustrated Editions series, continuing the visual storytelling started by Jim Kay.

Works
As author and illustrator
The Django (2010)
Black Dog (2011)
Greenling (2015)
Pictura Prints: Medieval Town (2017)
The Paradise Sands (2022)
As illustrator
The Secret Horses of Briar Hill (2016) by Megan Shepherd
The Song from Somewhere Else (2016) by A. F. Harrold
The Dam (2019) by David Almond
The Last Bear (2021) by Hannah Gold
The Lost Whale (2022) by Hannah Gold
Finding Bear (2023) by Hannah Gold
The Worlds We Leave Behind (2024) by A. F. Harrold
Turtle Moon (2024) by Hannah Gold
Norse Mythology (Illustrated Edition) (2024) by Neil Gaiman
The Lone Husky (2025) by Hannah Gold
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (illustrated edition, 2026)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (TBA)


================================================================================

# List of Fantastic Beasts characters

This is a list of characters from the Fantastic Beasts films.

Introduced in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them

Newt Scamander

Newt Scamander is an introverted British wizard and magizoologist, as well as a member of Hogwarts' Hufflepuff House. In Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them, Newt arrives in New York, where he encounters Muggle Jacob Kowalski, demoted auror Porpentina "Tina" Goldstein and Tina's Legilimens sister Queenie Goldstein. Newt works together with the trio and rounds up escaped magical beasts. After an obscurial attack, Newt prevents the exposure of the wizarding world to American Muggle (known as No-maj) community through an obliviating potion, dispersed by his thunderbird Frank.
In Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, Newt illegally reaches Paris with Jacob in order to track and save Credence Barebone, the obscurial responsible for the New York attack. He faces another challenge as Tina, whom he has begun to love, shuns him upon thinking that he is engaged. Nonetheless, Newt clears the misunderstanding and reconciles with Tina. After a destructive rally of Grindelwald's followers during which Credence and Queenie join dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald, Newt chooses to join the fight against Grindelwald.
Newt reappears in Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore. Along with his former professor Albus Dumbledore, Newt and his team thwart Grindelwald's plans for world domination and stop him from becoming the minister for magic. When Queenie realises her mistake and returns to the good side, she and Jacob marry. Newt attends the wedding as Jacob's best man, while Tina attends as well, as her sister's maid of honour.
At some point after the end of the global wizarding war, Newt and Tina marry and have a grandson named Rolf who marries Luna Lovegood. Newt is the author of the book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, which is used as a textbook by Harry Potter and his classmates.
Throughout the film series, Newt Scamander is portrayed by Eddie Redmayne. In Crimes of Grindelwald, a young Newt Scamander is portrayed by Joshua Shea.

Tina Goldstein
Porpentina Esther "Tina" Goldstein (played by Katherine Waterston) is a grounded, down-to-earth witch and demoted auror employed by MACUSA. Unlike her sister, Tina has no special powers beyond being a competent witch. But she is never afraid to assert herself when she believes she is right, a trait which gets her in trouble with MACUSA. Tina played an instrumental role in the New York incident, helping Newt secure the creatures that escaped from his magical suitcase. She helps Newt to clear their names after they are framed by Percival Graves - Head of the American auror office in order to keep his motives and actions secret. Tina was the only person besides Newt to show compassion to Credence both before and after his magical powers were revealed. At the end of Fantastic Beasts, she and Newt have a tender parting before he returns to Europe. Tina was later promoted back to her position of Auror.
In Crimes of Grindelwald, Tina attempts to find and help Credence along with Newt and fights against Grindelwald's forces in the Paris incident. She is cold toward Newt throughout most of this adventure, until she discovers that it is not Newt but his brother who is engaged to Leta Lestrange, as had been mistakenly been reported.
In Secrets of Dumbledore, it is revealed Tina is now head of the American Auror office in New York, so she has no part in the events of this film. Tina briefly reunites with Newt at Queenie and Jacob's wedding. The warmth of this reunion hints at the eventual romantic relationship between the two.

Jacob Kowalski
Jacob Kowalski (played by Dan Fogler) is a brave First World War veteran, a genial No-Maj and a talented and creative aspiring baker. His birthday is on January 15th (national bagel day) according to a headcannon on Mugglecast. Hoping to get out of his dead-end factory job, he accidentally takes Newt Scamander's magical suitcase menagerie when he goes to apply for a bank loan to open a bakery. He meets Newt, Tina, and Queenie in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and is quickly smitten with Queenie. At the end of the film, Jacob has been given the money by Newt to open his bakery, but his memory of their magical adventures are erased.
In The Crimes of Grindelwald, it is revealed that he regained his memories of Queenie and the others. Since marriage is forbidden by MACUSA between magical and non-magical people in America, Jacob refuses to marry Queenie, whom he wishes to protect from the wrath of the magical community. Queenie, wounded by his refusal, leaves him to join Grindelwald, who promises her the hope of marrying Jacob.
In Secrets of Dumbledore, Lally Hicks recruits Jacob to join the cause against Grindelwald and presents him with a wand. He assists Newt, Lally, Theseus, Yusuf Kama, and Dumbledore in preventing Grindelwald from stealing the election of Supreme Mugwump. At the end of the film, Queenie returns to his side and they get married in his New York City bakery.

Queenie Goldstein
Queenie Goldstein (played by Alison Sudol) is Tina's younger sister and roommate and a skilled Legilimens. She meets Jacob Kowalski in New York City during the events of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them. Sharing a love of cooking, they fall deeply in love, but MACUSA bans marriage between wizards and No-Majs. Wounded by Jacob's refusal to marry her (even though he feels it is to protect her), Queenie joins Grindelwald in The Crimes of Grindelwald, as he promises her a new world order. In Secrets of Dumbledore, Queenie becomes increasingly disillusioned with Grindelwald, ultimately renouncing him. She later marries Jacob in the latter's New York City bakery.

Mary Lou Barebone
Mary Lou Barebone (played by Samantha Morton) is a fanatical No-Maj campaigner against wizardry and the abusive adoptive mother of Credence, Chastity, and Modesty. She is unaware that she has adopted a magical child and was killed by it.

Credence Barebone
Credence Barebone (played by Ezra Miller) is a secret obscurus wizard and Mary Lou Barebone's troubled adopted son. Unaware of his origins or that he has magical powers, Credence harbours enormous rage, which turns into a dangerous Obscurus, having been tormented for years by his abusive adoptive mother. He meets Newt Scamander and Tina Goldstein in New York. Percival Graves is initially mistaken in thinking that the Obscurus inhabits his adoptive sister Modesty, when in reality it was Credence who kills Senator Henry Shaw Jr and his own adoptive mother, before being neutralized by MACUSA aurors.
In The Crimes of Grindelwald, Credence travels to Paris, searching for his true identity. Newt Scamander is tasked by Albus Dumbledore to find him and protect him from Grindelwald, who wishes to use Credence in his quest for power. The young man initially believes himself to be a son of the Lestrange family, but Leta dismisses this possibility. At Nurmengard Castle, Grindelwald tells Credence that his real name is Aurelius Dumbledore and that his brother (Albus Dumbledore) would seek to destroy him.
In The Secrets of Dumbledore, in 1932, five years after the events of the last movie, Credence is sent by Grindelwald to China to capture a baby qilin. He reports it in person to his new master. Later, Credence has a conversation with Queenie Goldstein; she tells him that Grindelwald regularly asks her to spy on the young man and report his thoughts to him, but she reveals to Credence that she doesn't tell everything. After that, Credence looks in a mirror and sees an inscription: "Forgive me", which he immediately erases. It is understood that Credence, from Nurmengard, communicates with someone by magic messages written on mirrors. Credence feels that he has been rejected by the Dumbledores and Grindelwald stirs up his feeling of abandonment, convinced that Credence's pain is his strength. Later, Albus Dumbledore briefly spots one of Credence's messages on a bar mirror, addressed to his brother Aberforth. In the streets of Berlin, Albus comes to meet the young man and, anticipating the confrontation, takes care beforehand to tip them into a mirror dimension in order to protect the Muggles present around them. Credence claims to be his brother and that his name is Aurelius. He engages a fight but is weakened due to his obscurus. Albus sees Credence's phoenix, and confirms that the young man is indeed a Dumbledore. He is touched by his suffering and his loneliness and manages to convince him that Grindelwald has fueled his hatred, and that the Dumbledore family, who were unaware of the truth until now, have never rejected him. After that, Credence returns to Nurmengard. In the basements of the castle, Credence sees Grindelwald, his master, reanimate the previously killed qilin, and is violently reprimanded for neglecting the qilin's twin, whom Grindelwald has just seen in the reflection of the resurrection pool. One evening, Credence sends a new message to Aberforth, wishing to "come home". The same night, Albus has a discussion with his brother about Credence. It is revealed that the young man is actually Albus's nephew, and Aberforth's son. After that, Credence goes to Bhutan to attend the next confederation election. Grindelwald manipulates the election by having the reanimated qilin bow to him. However, with the help of Newt Scamander, Bunty and the twin qilin, Credence exposes Grindelwald's lies. Gellert tries to kill Credence by using the Killing Curse, but the young man is protected by the Dumbledore brothers. Credence finally meets his father and returns home to Hogsmeade with his phoenix.

Modesty Barebone
Modesty Barebone (played by Faith Wood-Blagrove) is a haunted young girl who is the youngest of Mary Lou's adopted children.

Seraphina Picquery
Seraphina Picquery (played by Carmen Ejogo) is the president of MACUSA.

Henry Shaw Snr
Henry Shaw Snr (played by Jon Voight) is a newspaper owner and the father of U.S. senator Henry Jnr and Langdon Shaw.

Langdon Shaw
Langdon Shaw (played by Ronan Raftery) is the younger of Henry Shaw Snr's sons, who begins to believe in magic.

Henry Shaw Jnr
Henry Shaw Jnr (played by Josh Cowdery) is the elder of Henry Shaw Snr's sons and also his father's favourite one. He is a successful politician and is killed by Credence Barebone's Obscurus during a speech at a fundraising dinner.

Abernathy
Abernathy (played by Kevin Guthrie) is Tina and Queenie's MACUSA supervisor and later an acolyte of Grindelwald

Chastity Barebone
Chastity Barebone (played by Jenn Murray) is the middle of Mary Lou's adopted children

Gellert Grindelwald

Gellert Grindelwald is an infamous, powerful dark wizard who caused mass violence, terror, and chaos around the globe, seeking to lead a new Wizarding World Order based on his strong belief in wizarding superiority. He was in a relationship with Dumbledore when the two were teenagers.
Grindelwald is portrayed by Colin Farrell disguised as Percival Graves in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and Johnny Depp both in Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them and Crimes of Grindelwald, by Mads Mikkelsen in The Secrets of Dumbledore, by Jamie Campbell Bower as young Grindelwald, and by Michael Byrne as old Grindelwald

Leta Lestrange
Leta Lestrange (played by Zoë Kravitz, by Thea Lamb as a teenager and by Tuby Wooldenfen as a child) is an emotionally damaged and confused young woman who still exerts some control over Newt, who was once, and possibly still is, in love with her. She appears in the first film in just an animated photograph. She is also the fiancé to Theseus Scamander.

Introduced in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald

Theseus Scamander
Theseus Scamander (played by Callum Turner) is Newt Scamander's older brother who works in the Auror Office of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. He is also the fiancé to Leta Lestrange.

Nagini
Nagini (played by Claudia Kim) is the main attraction of a wizarding circus and freak show called Circus Arcanus and a Maledictus, who carries a blood curse that will eventually transform her into a snake permanently.

Yusuf Kama
Yusuf Kama (played by William Nadylam and by Isaac Domingos as a child) is a French-Senegalese wizard.

Nicholas Flamel
Nicholas Flamel (played by Brontis Jodorowsky) is a French wizard and alchemist who created the Philosopher's stone.

Albus Dumbledore

Albus Dumbledore (played by Jude Law and by Toby Regbo as a teenager) is an extremely influential and powerful wizard in the British Wizarding Community, known in the British Ministry of Magic and throughout the wider wizarding world for his academic brilliance.

Bunty Broadacre
Bunty Broadacre (played by Victoria Yeates) is Newt Scamander's "indispenable" assistant. She has an unrequited love with an oblivious Newt.

Vinda Rosier
Vinda Rosier (played by Poppy Corby-Tuech) is Grindelwald's loyal right-hand follower and an Occlumens.

Minerva McGonagall

Minerva McGonagall (played by Fiona Glascott) is a teacher at Hogwarts and Albus Dumbledore's colleague.

Carrow
Carrow (played by Maja Bloom) is a follower of Grindelwald

Mustafa Kama
Mustafa Kama (played by Hugh Quarshie) is the husband of Laurena Kama and the father of Yusuf Kama

Torquill Travers
Torquill Travers (played by Derek Riddell) is the head of the Department Magical Law Enforcement.

Lally Hicks
Eulalie "Lally" Hicks (played by Jessica Williams) is a respected teacher at Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

Introduced in Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore

Aberforth Dumbledore

Aberforth Dumbledore (played by Richard Coyle) is Albus Dumbledore's younger brother and owner of the Hog's Head inn.

Anton Vogel
Anton Vogel (played by Oliver Masucci) is the current Supreme Head of the International Confederation of Wizards (ICW) and Minister of Magic for Germany. In Secrets of Dumbledore,  Vogel actively makes political attempts to assist Grindelwald in his electoral efforts.

Vicência Santos
Vicência Santos (played by Maria Fernanda Cândido) is a candidate for the post of Supreme Head of the ICW and Minister of Magic for Brazil

Liu Tao
Liu Tao (played by Dave Wong) is a candidate for the post of Supreme Head of the ICW and Minister of Magic for China.

Henrietta Fischer
Henrietta Fischer (played by Valerie Pachner) is a witch who works for the German Ministry of Magic.

Zabini
Zabini (played by Paul Low-Hang) is an acolyte of Grindelwald

Helmut
Helmut (played by Aleksandr Kuznetsov) is a corrupted auror of the German Ministry and a follower of Grindelwald.

Frank Doyle
Frank Doyle (played by Wilf Scolding) is an American wizard and colleague of Lally Hicks.


================================================================================

# List of Harry Potter characters

This is a list of notable characters found in the fictional universe of Harry Potter. Each character appears in at least one of the following works written, co-written or based on a story by J. K. Rowling:

The seven original Harry Potter novels (1997–2007)
The three films in the Fantastic Beasts series (2016–2022)
Quidditch Through the Ages (2001)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (2008)
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child (2016)
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky Poltergeists (2016)
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies (2016)
Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide (2016)
The Harry Potter prequel (2008)

Characters by surname

A
Abbott, Hannah – Hufflepuff prefect in the same year as Harry Potter. Member of Dumbledore's Army. Hannah leaves Hogwarts in Half-Blood Prince after her mother is murdered by Death Eaters, but returns in Deathly Hallows to participate in the Battle of Hogwarts. As an adult, Hannah becomes the owner of The Leaky Cauldron and marries Neville Longbottom. She is portrayed by Charlotte Skeoch in the Harry Potter films.

B
Bagman, Ludo – Head of the Department of Magical Games and Sports at the Ministry of Magic. He loves gambling, which got him in financial troubles during both the Quidditch World Cup and the Triwizard Tournament, of which he is one of the judges. Bagman flees after the third task of the Tournament, being unable to pay his bet to goblins.
Bagshot, Bathilda – Author of A History of Magic, and the great-aunt of Gellert Grindelwald. Under the influence of Veritaserum, Bagshot is a major source of information for Rita Skeeter's biography of Albus Dumbledore. Bagshot is portrayed by Hazel Douglas in the film Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 (2010).
Bell, Katie – Gryffindor Quidditch Chaser one year above Harry. Member of Dumbledore's Army. In Half-Blood Prince, Katie is cursed after touching a necklace Draco Malfoy intended to give to Albus Dumbledore. In Deathly Hallows, she participates in the Battle of Hogwarts. Katie is portrayed by Emily Dale in the first two Harry Potter films. She is portrayed by Georgina Leonidas in Half-Blood Prince and Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2.
Binns, Cuthbert – The History of Magic professor at Hogwarts. He is the only ghost professor.
Black, Regulus – Sirius' younger brother and defected Death Eater, who switched Slytherin's locket (one of Voldemort's Horcruxes) for a fake one, leaving a note to his former master signed as "R.A.B." Sacrifices his life while ensuring his House-elf Kreacher escapes with the real locket.
Black, Sirius – Harry's godfather. Animagus. He was falsely accused of murdering twelve Muggles and betraying Lily and James Potter to Voldemort. Sirius escapes from the wizard prison Azkaban and joins the revived Order of the Phoenix. He is later killed by his cousin Bellatrix Lestrange.
Bones, Susan – Hufflepuff student in Harry's year and member of Dumbledore's Army. Niece of Amelia Bones and Edgar Bones. Susan is portrayed by Eleanor Columbus in the Harry Potter films and by Alex Tregear in the Order of the Phoenix video game.
Boot, Terry – Ravenclaw student in Harry's year and member of Dumbledore's Army. He is a close friend of Michael Corner and Anthony Goldstein.
Brown, Lavender – Gryffindor student in Harry's year and member of Dumbledore's Army. In Order of the Phoenix, she initially believes the Ministry's smear campaign against Harry. The following year, she has a romance with Ron Weasley, which ends after she becomes jealous of Ron's friendship with Hermione Granger. In Deathly Hallows, Lavender is attacked by Fenrir Greyback during the Battle of Hogwarts. Her fate is not clear in the novel, but she dies in the film adaptation. Lavender is portrayed by Kathleen Cauley in the film adaptation of Chamber of Secrets, by Jennifer Smith in Prisoner of Azkaban, and by Jessie Cave in Half-Blood Prince and Deathly Hallows – Part 2.
Bryce, Frank – Muggle gardener who is killed by Voldemort. Bryce is portrayed by Eric Sykes in the film adaptation of Goblet of Fire (2005).
Burbage, Charity – Professor of Muggle Studies at Hogwarts. Killed by Voldemort in Deathly Hallows. Portrayed by Carolyn Pickles in the Harry Potter films.

C
Carrow, Alecto – Death Eater and sister of Amycus Carrow. Professor of Muggle Studies and Deputy Headmistress of Hogwarts under Severus Snape.
Carrow, Amycus – Death Eater and brother of Alecto Carrow. Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts and Deputy Headmaster of Hogwarts under Severus Snape.
Chang, Cho – Ravenclaw Quidditch Seeker and member of Dumbledore's Army. One year above Harry, and his first love interest. Cho is one of the first students to believe Harry's declaration of Voldemort's return. In the film adaptation of Order of the Phoenix, Cho exposes Dumbledore's Army to Dolores Umbridge while under the influence of a truth potion, whereas in the novel it is her friend Marietta Edgecombe who willfully betrays the group. In Harry's fifth year, Cho kisses him and goes on a date with him, but Harry eventually ends their relationship. Cho is portrayed by Katie Leung in the Harry Potter films.
Corner, Michael – Ravenclaw student in Harry's year and member of Dumbledore's Army. He begins a romance with Ginny Weasley, but she eventually ends the relationship. He then begins seeing Cho Chang. Ryan Nelson portrays Michael Corner in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
Crabbe, Vincent – Slytherin student in Harry's year and the son of a Death Eater. Beater for the Slytherin Quidditch team and member of Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad. Killed by his own Fiendfyre spell. Crabbe is portrayed by Jamie Waylett in the Harry Potter films.
Creevey, Colin – Muggle-born Gryffindor student one year below Harry. Older brother of Dennis Creevey and member of Dumbledore's Army. Killed during the Battle of Hogwarts. Colin is portrayed by Hugh Mitchell in the film adaptation of Chamber of Secrets.
Crouch Sr, Bartemius – Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement during Voldemort’s first rise to power. He convicted his son, Barty Crouch Jr, who was a Death Eater; however, later Crouch secretly saves his son from Azkaban through a Polyjuice Potion switch with his dying wife and keeps him under the Imperius Curse. Voldemort later seizes control of Crouch, frees Barty Jr, and forces Crouch to continue working, including serving as a Triwizard Tournament judge, until he escapes to warn Dumbledore. Before he can do so, his son murders him. Roger Lloyd-Pack appeared as Mr. Crouch in the fourth film.
Crouch Jr, Barty – Death Eater credited with facilitating the return of Voldemort. Impersonates Alastor Moody with Polyjuice Potion and later receives a Dementor's Kiss. He is played by David Tennant in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.

D
Dawlish, John – Auror that accompanies Fudge to Hogwarts to confront Harry and Dumbledore. All of his attempts to arrest Order of the Phoenix members and allies (Dumbledore, Hagrid, Neville's grandmother, etc.) fail. Dawlish is portrayed by Richard Leaf in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
Delacour, Fleur – Champion from Beauxbatons in the Triwizard Tournament. Wife of Bill Weasley and member of the Order of the Phoenix. Participant in the Battle of Hogwarts. Granddaughter of a Veela. Portrayed by Clémence Poésy in the Harry Potter films.
Diggle, Dedalus – Member of the Order of the Phoenix who takes the Dursleys into hiding. Portrayed by David Brett in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone.
Diggory, Amos – Employee at the Ministry of Magic and father of Cedric Diggory. Portrayed by Jeff Rawle in the film Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, and featured in Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. Daniel P. Moloney cited him as a negative example of parenting in the series because the character seems to view his son as an extension of himself.
Diggory, Cedric – Seeker for the Hufflepuff Quidditch team and prefect two years above Harry. He competes in the Triwizard Tournament in Goblet of Fire and is killed on Voldemort's orders after winning the event with Harry. In the play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Cedric becomes a Death Eater in an alternate timeline. Cedric is portrayed by Robert Pattinson in the film adaptation of Goblet of Fire and by Joe Livermore in Prisoner of Azkaban. Henry Cavill also auditioned for the part in Goblet of Fire. Pattinson said his experience during the production of the film inspired him to keep acting. Cedric's death was listed by Business Insider as the most heartbreaking death in the Harry Potter films. Cedric is voiced by Blake Ritson in the Goblet of Fire video game.
Doge, Elphias – School friend of Albus Dumbledore and member of the original Order of the Phoenix. Writes an obituary for Dumbledore in The Daily Prophet. Portrayed by Peter Cartwright in the film adaptation of Order of the Phoenix and by David Ryall in Deathly Hallows – Part 1.
Dolohov, Antonin – Death Eater, responsible for the death of Molly Weasley's brothers. Escapes Azkaban, participates in the battle of the Department of Mysteries, and kills Remus Lupin in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Dumbledore, Aberforth – Brother of Albus and Ariana Dumbledore. Owner of The Hog's Head tavern and member of the Order of the Phoenix. In Deathly Hallows, he sends Dobby to rescue Harry and other prisoners from Malfoy Manor. He later helps Harry enter Hogwarts. Aberforth is portrayed by Jim McManus in the film adaptation of Order of the Phoenix, by Ciarán Hinds in Deathly Hallows – Part 2, and by Richard Coyle in Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore.
Dumbledore, Albus – Headmaster of Hogwarts during Harry's school years. Transfiguration professor at Hogwarts during Tom Riddle's school years. Founder of the Order of the Phoenix. Dumbledore orchestrated his own death at the hands of Severus Snape.
Dumbledore, Ariana – Sister of Albus and Aberforth Dumbledore. Killed during a three-way duel between Albus, Aberforth and Gellert Grindelwald.
Dursley, Dudley – Son of Vernon and Petunia Dursley, and cousin of Harry. Portrayed by Harry Melling in the Harry Potter films. During the course of the film series, Melling lost a considerable amount of weight. To accurately portray Dudley in Deathly Hallows – Part 1, Melling wore a fat suit.
Dursley, Marge – Sister of Vernon Dursley who is accidentally inflated by Harry. Marge is portrayed by Pam Ferris in the film adaptation of Prisoner of Azkaban (2004).
Dursley, Petunia – Harry's aunt, Vernon's wife and Dudley's mother. In the Harry Potter films, Petunia is portrayed by Fiona Shaw (adult) and Ariella Paradise (child).
Dursley, Vernon – Harry's uncle, Petunia's husband and Dudley's father. Vernon is portrayed by Richard Griffiths in the Harry Potter films.

E
Edgecombe, Marietta – Ravenclaw student, Cho Chang's friend and member of Dumbledore's Army. Marietta later betrays the group to Umbridge.

F

Figg, Arabella – An elderly Squib enlisted by Dumbledore to watch over Harry during his childhood from her nearby home. Member of the Order of the Phoenix. Crossbreeder of cats and Kneazles. Portrayed by Kathryn Hunter in the film adaptation of Order of the Phoenix.
Filch, Argus – Squib caretaker of Hogwarts. Portrayed by David Bradley in the Harry Potter films and Paul Whitehouse in the television series.
Finch-Fletchley, Justin – Muggle-born Hufflepuff student in Harry's year. Member of Dumbledore's Army. Portrayed by Edward Randell in the film adaptation of Chamber of Secrets.
Finnigan, Seamus – An Irish Gryffindor student in Harry's year. In Order of the Phoenix, Seamus is initially influenced by the Ministry's smear campaign against Harry. He later joins Dumbledore's Army. Seamus is portrayed by Devon Murray in the Harry Potter films.
Fletcher, Mundungus – Petty thief and member of the Order of the Phoenix. Keeps Dumbledore notified of happenings in the criminal element of the wizarding world. Mundungus is portrayed by Andy Linden in the film Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1.
Flitwick, Filius – Professor of Charms and the Head of Ravenclaw House. He has distant goblin ancestry. He is portrayed by Warwick Davis in the Harry Potter films.
Fudge, Cornelius – Minister for Magic in the first five novels. in the first five novels. Removed from his position after denying Voldemort's return. Fudge is portrayed by Robert Hardy in the film series.

G
Goldstein, Anthony – Ravenclaw student in Harry's year and member of Dumbledore's Army. He is a close friend of Michael Corner and Terry Boot.
Goyle, Gregory – Slytherin student in Harry's year. Beater for the Slytherin Quidditch team and member of the Inquisitorial Squad. Goyle is portrayed by Joshua Herdman in the Harry Potter films.
Granger, Hermione – Muggle-born Gryffindor prefect in Harry's year, and one of his closest friends. Co-founder of Dumbledore's Army. Wife of Ron Weasley and mother of Hugo Granger-Weasley and Rose Granger-Weasley.
Granger, Mr and Mrs – Hermione Granger's parents. During the Second Wizarding War, Hermione alters their memories to protect them from Voldemort, which causes them to believe they are Wendell and Monica Wilkins. She later restores their memories.
Granger-Weasley, Hugo – Son of Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, and brother of Rose Granger-Weasley. Hugo is portrayed by Ryan Turner in the film Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2011).
Granger-Weasley, Rose – Daughter of Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, and sister of Hugo Granger-Weasley. Rose is portrayed by Helena Barlow in the film Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2011).
Graves, Percival – A high-ranking auror and Director of Magical Security for MACUSA. For most of the plot of the film Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, Grindelwald is disguised as Graves, who is portrayed by Colin Farrell.
Greengrass, Astoria – Wife of Draco Malfoy who dies from a blood curse. She is portrayed by Jade Gordon in the film Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2011).
Greyback, Fenrir – Werewolf, responsible for turning Remus Lupin into one as a child. Ally of Voldemort and the Death Eaters, and leader of the Snatchers. Mauls Bill Weasley during the night in which Dumbledore dies. Kills Lavender Brown in the final film. Dave Legeno portrays him in the films.
Grindelwald, Gellert – Dark wizard who was imprisoned after Albus Dumbledore defeated him in the 1940s. In the Fantastic Beasts film series, Grindelwald and Dumbledore are former lovers who made a blood pact in their youth to never harm each other. However, Grindelwald attempts to indirectly kill Dumbledore. In the film Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 (2010), Grindelwald is portrayed by Jamie Campbell Bower and Michael Byrne. In the Fantastic Beasts film series, he is played by Johnny Depp, Mads Mikkelsen and Bower.
Grubbly-Plank, Wilhelmina – Substitute Care of Magical Creatures professor. Portrayed by Apple Brook in the film adaptation of Order of the Phoenix.
Gryffindor, Godric – One of the four founders of Hogwarts, and the founder of Gryffindor House. He valued courage, determination and strength of heart. According to Rowling, he was "the most accomplished dueller of his time and an enlightened fighter against Muggle-discrimination". His relics include the Sword of Gryffindor and the Sorting Hat.

H
Hagrid, Rubeus – Hogwarts gamekeeper, Care of Magical Creatures professor, and member of the Order of the Phoenix. Half-giant. He was expelled during his third year at Hogwarts.
Hooch, Rolanda – Quidditch referee and flying instructor for first-year students. Zoë Wanamaker portrayed her in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.
Hopkirk, Mafalda – Ministry of Magic employee who is impersonated by Hermione Granger using Polyjuice Potion.
Hufflepuff, Helga – One of the four founders of Hogwarts, and the founder of Hufflepuff House. She favoured loyalty, honesty, and dedication. One of her relics, a small golden cup, was stolen by Voldemort and turned into a Horcrux.

J
Johnson, Angelina – Chaser for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, and later team captain. She is two years above Harry. She is married to George Weasley. She returns to the school to participate in the Battle of Hogwarts. Angelina is portrayed by Danielle Tabor in the first three Harry Potter films, and by Tiana Benjamin in Goblet of Fire.
Jordan, Lee – Gryffindor student, close friend of Fred and George Weasley and member of Dumbledore's Army. He is two years above Harry and serves as the Quidditch commentator at Hogwarts. In Deathly Hallows, Lee becomes a pirate radio broadcaster on a station called Potterwatch, which supports the activities of Harry and the Order of the Phoenix. Luke Youngblood portrays Lee in the films and voices him in the Order of the Phoenix video game.
Jorkins, Bertha – Ministry of Magic employee who is killed by Voldemort. Rowling later revealed that her death was used to turn Nagini into a Horcrux.

K
Karkaroff, Igor – Defected Death Eater and Durmstrang's headmaster until his murder at the hands of Death Eaters.
Krum, Viktor – Bulgarian Quidditch Seeker and Durmstrang student who participates in the Triwizard Tournament. Krum is portrayed by Stanislav Ianevski in the film Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005).

L
Lestrange, Bellatrix – Death Eater who tortured Neville Longbottom's parents into insanity. Killed her cousin Sirius Black. Killed by Molly Weasley during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Lockhart, Gilderoy – Defence Against the Dark Arts professor and fraudulent celebrity author. Loses his memory after a spell backfires. According to Rowling, Lockhart is the only Harry Potter character based on a real-life person. He was inspired by an acquaintance of Rowling who was, in her words, "even more objectionable than his fictional counterpart" and "used to tell whopping great fibs about his past life, all of them designed to demonstrate what a wonderful, brave and brilliant person he was." Lockhart is portrayed by Kenneth Branagh in the film adaptation of Chamber of Secrets.. He will be portrayed by Kit Harington in the Harry Potter TV series of HBO.
Longbottom, Augusta – Neville's grandmother and supporter of the Order of the Phoeniex. Leila Hoffman portrayed her in the first film.
Longbottom, Neville – Gryffindor student in Harry's year. Member of Dumbledore's Army.
Lovegood, Luna – Ravenclaw student one year below Harry. Member of Dumbledore's Army and daughter of Xenophilius Lovegood.
Lovegood, Xenophilius – Luna's father and editor of The Quibbler. Rhys Ifans portrayed him in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1.
Lupin, Remus – School friend of Sirius Black, James Potter and Peter Pettigrew. Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts in Harry's third year, and member of the Order of the Phoenix. Werewolf. He and his wife Nymphadora Tonks die during the Battle of Hogwarts, leaving their son Teddy Lupin an orphan.
Lupin, Teddy – Orphaned son of Remus Lupin and Nymphadora Tonks and godson of Harry Potter. He is named after Tonks's father, Ted Tonks. Teddy is a metamorphmagus like his mother.

M

Macmillan, Ernie – Hufflepuff student in Harry's year and member of Dumbledore's Army. Ernie initially believes that Harry is the Heir of Slytherin and responsible for the attacks on Muggle-born students. Later, he is among the few students who openly support Harry's claims that Voldemort has returned, and becomes Hufflepuff's prefect. Louis Doyle portrays Ernie in the Harry Potter films and voices him in the Order of the Phoenix video game.
Macnair, Walden – Death Eater and executioner who fails to execute the hippogriff Buckbeak. Injured by Hagrid during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Malfoy, Draco – Slytherin student in Harry's year. Quidditch Seeker, prefect, member of the Inquisitorial Squad and eventual Death Eater. Portrayed by Tom Felton in the Harry Potter films.
Malfoy, Lucius – Death Eater. Father to Draco and husband to Narcissa Malfoy. Governor of Hogwarts early in the series.
Malfoy, Narcissa – Mother to Draco, wife to Lucius Malfoy and sister to Bellatrix Lestrange. Portrayed by Helen McCrory in the Harry Potter films.
Maxime, Olympe – Half-giantess and headmistress of the wizarding school Beauxbatons. Portrayed by Frances de la Tour in the Harry Potter films.
McGonagall, Minerva – Transfiguration professor, Head of Gryffindor House, Deputy Headmistress of Hogwarts, and member of the Order of the Phoenix. Animagus. Led the defence of the school during the Battle of Hogwarts. Headmistress of Hogwarts after Voldemort's death. She is portrayed by Maggie Smith in the Harry Potter films and by Fiona Glascott in the Fantastic Beasts films.
McLaggen, Cormac – Gryffindor student one year above Harry. Quidditch Keeper and member of the Slug Club. He is portrayed by Freddie Stroma in the Harry Potter films.
Moody, Alastor – Retired Auror and member of the Order of the Phoenix. Known as "Mad-Eye Moody" because of the magical eye he wears. Impersonated by Barty Crouch Jr as part of a scheme to enter Harry into the Triwizard Tournament. Moody is killed by Voldemort. He is portrayed by Brendan Gleeson in the Harry Potter films.

O
Ollivander, Garrick – Wandmaker and proprietor of the Ollivanders wand shop. Master of the Elder Wand before Grindelwald steals it. John Hurt portrayed him in the film series.

P
Parkinson, Pansy – Slytherin student in Harry's year. Prefect and member of the Inquisitorial Squad. J. K. Rowling said Parkinson was based on real-life girls who teased her at school.
Patil, Padma – Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, Parvati's twin sister and member of Dumbledore's Army. She is Ron's date for the Yule Ball in Goblet of Fire. Padma is portrayed by Sharon Sandhu in the film adaptation of Prisoner of Azkaban and by Afshan Azad in later films.
Patil, Parvati – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, Padma's twin sister and member of Dumbledore's Army. She is Harry's date for the Yule Ball in Goblet of Fire. Parvati is portrayed by Sitara Shah in Prisoner of Azkaban and by Shefali Chowdhury in Goblet of Fire, Order of the Phoenix and Half-Blood Prince.
Pettigrew, Peter – Death Eater and school friend of Sirius Black, Remus Lupin and Harry's father James Potter. Pettigrew betrayed Harry's parents to Voldemort, resulting in their deaths. It is revealed that Ron Weasley's pet rat Scabbers is actually Pettigrew in his animagus form. Pettigrew is strangled to death by his own magical prosthetic hand.
Pince, Irma – Hogwarts librarian. Portrayed by Sally Mortemore in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
Pomfrey, Poppy – Hogwarts school nurse. Portrayed by Gemma Jones in the Harry Potter films.
Potter, Harry – Orphaned son of James and Lily Potter. Gryffindor student at Hogwarts and co-founder of Dumbledore's Army. Close friend of Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. Husband of Ginny Weasley and father of James Sirius, Albus Severus and Lily Luna Potter.
Potter, James – husband of Lily Potter and father of Harry Potter.
Potter, Lily – Wife of James Potter and mother of Harry Potter. Killed by Voldemort. Rowling said that Lily's maiden name, Evans, was derived from Mary Anne Evans, the given name of the author George Eliot. In the film series, Lily is portrayed by Geraldine Somerville as an adult, by Susie Shinner as a teenager, and by Ellie Darcey-Alden as a child.

Q
Quirrell, Quirinus – Defence Against the Dark Arts professor in during Harry's first year. When Harry and Quirrell both try to recover the Philosopher's Stone, it is revealed that Voldemort has possessed Quirrell's body. Harry holds off Quirrell long enough for Dumbledore to arrive, at which point Voldemort departs Quirrell's body and Quirrell dies. Although Quirrell's first name is never mentioned in the novels, he was given the first name "Quirinus" in the Harry Potter Trading Card Game. Quirrell is portrayed by Ian Hart in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone.

R
Ravenclaw, Rowena – One of the four founders of Hogwarts, and the founder of Ravenclaw House.
Rookwood, Augustus – Death Eater, former Ministry of Magic official that acted as though he was aiding the anti-Voldemort cause, but was revealed as a double agent. Participated in the break-in at the Department of Mysteries, and later escaped from Azkaban. Participated in the Battle of Hogwarts, in which he is finally stunned by Aberforth Dumbledore.
Rowle, Thorfinn – Death Eater. Assaulted people within Hogwarts and accidentally killed the Death Eater Gibbon. Attacked Harry, Ron and Hermione in Tottenham Court Road, with Antonin Dolohov. Participated at the Battle of Hogwarts. Rod Hunt portrayed him in the films.

S
Scamander, Newt – Student expelled from Hogwarts who excels at curing diseases. Magizoologist and author of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.
Scrimgeour, Rufus – Head of the Auror Office who replaces Cornelius Fudge as Minister for Magic. Killed by Death Eaters. Bill Nighy played Scrimgeour in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1.
Shacklebolt, Kingsley – Auror and bodyguard for the Muggle Prime Minister. Helps organise members of the Order of the Phoenix and fights during the Battle of Hogwarts. After Voldemort's death, Shacklebolt becomes Minister for Magic. Kingsley is portrayed by George Harris in the Harry Potter films.
Stan Shunpike – Assistant conductor of the Knight Bus. Placed under the Imperious Curse by Death Eaters during Voldemort's second rise to power to do some work for them. Lee Ingleby portrays him in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.
Skeeter, Rita – Reporter and tabloid journalist for the Daily Prophet and an unregistered Animagus. There was speculation that the attention given to Harry Potter by the press was the inspiration for Skeeter, but Rowling explained in a 2000 interview that she developed the character before the success of the novels. Skeeter is portrayed by Miranda Richardson in the Harry Potter films.
Slughorn, Horace – Former Potions professor and Head of Slytherin House who returns to teaching for Harry's sixth year. He formerly taught Voldemort and indirectly led to his rise in power by teaching him about Horcruxes. He operates an exclusive social club with chosen students named the Slug Club. Portrayed by Jim Broadbent in the film adaptations of Half-Blood Prince and Deathly Hallows – Part 2.
Slytherin, Salazar – One of the four founders of Hogwarts, and the founder of Slytherin House. He was a Parselmouth, an accomplished Legilimens, and a proponent of pureblood supremacy. According to Albus Dumbledore, Slytherin prized resourcefulness, determination, cunning and ambition in his students. He is described as power-hungry by the Sorting Hat. His relics include a locket that was later turned into a Horcrux by Voldemort.
Smith, Hepzibah – Descendant of Helga Hufflepuff and owner of Hufflepuff's cup until she is killed by Voldemort, who uses her death to transform the cup into a Horcrux.
Smith, Zacharias – Chaser for the Hufflepuff Quidditch team. He joins Dumbledore's Army but is sceptical of Harry's claims. He becomes the Quidditch commentator after Lee Jordan. Nick Shirm portrays Zacharias in the Order of the Phoenix film and voices the character in the video game.
Snape, Severus – Hogwarts professor of Potions and later Defence Against the Dark Arts. Head of Slytherin House. Member of the Order of the Phoenix and a spy for Albus Dumbledore among the Death Eaters. Headmaster of Hogwarts when the Death Eaters take control of the school. Killed by Voldemort.
Spinnet, Alicia – Gryffindor Quidditch Chaser two years above Harry and member of Dumbledore's Army. She returns to the school for the Battle of Hogwarts. Alicia is portrayed by Leilah Sutherland in Philosopher's Stone and by Rochelle Douglas in Chamber of Secrets.
Sprout, Pomona – Hogwarts Herbology professor and Head of Hufflepuff House. Portrayed by Miriam Margolyes in the Harry Potter films.

T
Thomas, Dean – Gryffindor student in Harry's year. Member of Dumbledore's Army. Rowling omitted his physical description ("a black boy taller than Ron") from the British edition of Philosopher's Stone following her editor's request to reduce the length of a chapter, but his description was included in the American edition. In Deathly Hallows, he is captured by Snatchers and taken to Malfoy Manor along with Harry, Ron and Hermione. They are all rescued by the house-elf Dobby, and Dean later participates in the Battle of Hogwarts. Alfred Enoch portrays Dean in the Harry Potter films and voices him in the Order of the Phoenix and Deathly Hallows – Part 1 video games.
Thicknesse, Pius – Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement at the start of the final book, when he is placed under the Imperius Curse by Corban Yaxley. He is appointed as Voldemort's puppet Minister for Magic until the Battle of Hogwarts. Guy Henry plays Thicknesse in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2. In Part 2, Thicknesse is killed by Voldemort.
Tom – The barman and innkeeper of The Leaky Cauldron. He was represented by actor Derek Deadman in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001) and by Jim Tavaré in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. Their widely different depiction, with Tavaré portraying a hunch-back, was noted by reporter Kelsey Stiegman.
Tonks, Andromeda – Sister to Bellatrix Lestrange and Narcissa Malfoy, cousin to Sirius Black, wife to Ted Tonks and mother to  Nymphadora Tonks. Her marriage to Muggle-born Ted caused her to be disowned from the Black Family Tree.
Tonks, Nymphadora – A Metamorphmagus, Auror, and member of the Order of the Phoenix. Wife to Remus Lupin and mother to Teddy Lupin. Tonks is killed by her aunt Bellatrix Lestrange during the Battle of Hogwarts. She is portrayed by Natalia Tena in the Harry Potter films.
Tonks, Ted – Husband to Andromeda and father to Nymphadora Tonks. Killed by Voldemort's supporters for being a Muggle-born.
Trelawney, Sybill – Hogwarts Divination professor. Uttered a prophecy that prompted Voldemort to attack the Potters. Trelawney is fired by Dolores Umbridge in Order of the Phoenix, but she returns to work in Half-Blood Prince and Deathly Hallows. Trelawney is portrayed by Emma Thompson in the Harry Potter films.

U
Umbridge, Dolores – Senior Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic, Hogwarts High Inquisitor and temporary headmistress of Hogwarts. She teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts during Harry's fifth year, and persecutes half-bloods and Muggle-borns under Voldemort. Sentenced to life imprisonment in Azkaban.

V
Voldemort – Slytherin student whose given name is Tom Marvolo Riddle. Killed many of his own family members and countless other wizards and Muggles. Killed Harry's parents but failed to kill Harry. Returns to power following Harry's fourth year and begins reign of terror. Also known as Lord Voldemort and the Dark Lord.

W
Warren, Myrtle – Muggle-born Ravenclaw student who attended Hogwarts with Voldemort. Killed by a Basilisk in a bathroom, which she haunts as a ghost after her death. Voldemort used her death to create his first Horcrux. Known to students as "Moaning Myrtle". J. K. Rowling said the inspiration for Myrtle was "the frequent presence of a crying girl in communal bathrooms, especially at the parties and discos of my youth." Myrtle is portrayed by Shirley Henderson in the Harry Potter films.
Weasley, Arthur – Husband of Molly Weasley and father of Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, Ron, and Ginny Weasley. Member of the Order of the Phoenix. Portrayed by Mark Williams in the Harry Potter films.
Weasley, Bill – Eldest son of Arthur and Molly Weasley and husband of Fleur Delacour. Curse-breaker for Gringotts Wizarding Bank, member of the Order of the Phoenix and participant in the Battle of Hogwarts. Bill is portrayed by Richard Fish in the film adaptation of Prisoner of Azkaban, and by Domhnall Gleeson in Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2.
Weasley, Charlie – Son of Arthur and Molly Weasley. Joins with Horace Slughorn to lead reinforcements during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Weasley, Fred – Son of Arthur and Molly Weasley and identical twin brother of George Weasley. Beater for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, member of Dumbledore's Army, and co-owner of the joke shop Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes. Killed in the Battle of Hogwarts. Fred is portrayed by James Phelps in the Harry Potter films.
Weasley, George – Son of Arthur and Molly Weasley and identical twin brother of Fred Weasley. Beater for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, member of Dumbledore's Army, and co-owner of Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes. Married to Angelina Johnson. George is portrayed by Oliver Phelps in the Harry Potter films.
Weasley, Ginny – Youngest child and only daughter of Arthur and Molly Weasley. Gryffindor student one year below Harry. Seeker and Chaser for the Quidditch team and member of Dumbledore's Army. Married to Harry.
Weasley, Molly – Wife of Arthur Weasley and mother of Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, Ron, and Ginny Weasley. Member of the Order of the Phoenix. Kills Bellatrix Lestrange during the Battle of Hogwarts. Molly is portrayed by Julie Walters in the Harry Potter films, and will be played by Katherine Parkinson in the upcoming HBO television series.
Weasley, Percy – Third son of Arthur and Molly. Gryffindor prefect and Head Boy, then Ministry of Magic employee. He becomes estranged from his family but fights alongside them in the Battle of Hogwarts. Percy is portrayed by Chris Rankin in the film series.
Weasley, Ron – Youngest son of Arthur and Molly Weasley. Gryffindor prefect, co-founder of Dumbledore's Army and Quidditch Keeper. Close friend of Harry, husband of Hermione Granger, and father of Hugo Granger-Weasley and Rose Granger-Weasley.
Wood, Oliver – Gryffindor Quidditch Keeper and captain who is four years above Harry. Wood is portrayed by Sean Biggerstaff in the Harry Potter films.

Y
Yaxley, Corban – Death Eater. Places Pius Thicknesse under the Imperius Curse to serve as Minister for Magic as part of Voldemort's takeover of the Ministry. Serves as Head of Magical Law Enforcement under Thicknesse and leads the prosecution of Muggle-borns alongside Umbridge. Portrayed by Peter Mullan in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1.

Z
Zabini, Blaise – Slytherin student in Harry's year.

Characters with no surname

A
Aragog – Gigantic spider capable of human speech. Raised by Rubeus Hagrid. A wolf spider discovered in Iran, Lycosa aragogi, was named after him.

B
The Bloody Baron – The ghost of Slytherin House. He murdered Helena Ravenclaw (who became the Grey Lady), then killed himself. He wears chains as a reminder of his crime, and is one of the few characters at Hogwarts who can control Peeves. The Bloody Baron is portrayed by Terence Bayler in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone.

D
Dobby – House-elf belonging to the Malfoy family. In Chamber of Secrets, he tries to discourage Harry from returning to Hogwarts. Harry later tricks Lucius Malfoy into setting Dobby free, which earns Harry the elf's undying loyalty. In Goblet of Fire, Dobby works at Hogwarts and helps Harry with the second task of the Triwizard Tournament. When Harry and his friends are captured by Death Eaters in Deathly Hallows, Dobby rescues them. During the escape, he is killed by Bellatrix Lestrange. The entertainment website IGN described Dobby's death as one of the most emotional moments in the film series. Dobby is voiced by Toby Jones in the Harry Potter films.

F
The Fat Friar – The ghost of Hufflepuff House. He is cheerful and helpful towards students. He is portrayed by Simon Fisher-Becker in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone.
Fawkes – Phoenix belonging to Albus Dumbledore. Fawkes saves Harry from the Basilisk inside the Chamber of Secrets. In Order of the Phoenix, Fawkes saves Dumbledore's life by swallowing a killing curse from Voldemort. He then bursts into flame and is reborn from the ashes. The wands of both Harry and Voldemort contain a feather from Fawkes's tail. The phoenix is named after the 17th-century conspirator Guy Fawkes.
Firenze – Centaur who becomes a professor of Divination in Order of the Phoenix. The character is based on Steve Eddy, Rowling's former English teacher, who attempted to discourage her from writing fantasy stories. Firenze is voiced by Ray Fearon in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone. Firenze has been compared to the centaur Chiron of Greco-Roman mythology.

G
The Grey Lady – The ghost of Ravenclaw House. In life, she was Helena Ravenclaw, the daughter of Rowena Ravenclaw. After stealing her mother's diadem, she was killed by the Bloody Baron. The Grey Lady is portrayed by Nina Young in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone, and by Kelly Macdonald in Deathly Hallows – Part 2.
Griphook – Gringotts goblin who is captured by Snatchers in Deathly Hallows. With the assistance of Harry and Dobby, Griphook and several other prisoners escape from Malfoy Manor. Griphook then helps Harry break into Gringotts in exchange for the Sword of Gryffindor, but he later betrays Harry and his friends. Griphook dies in the film adaptation of the novel. He is portrayed by Verne Troyer in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone and by Warwick Davis in Deathly Hallows Part 1 and Part 2.

H
Hedwig – Harry's snowy owl, whom he got as a birthday gift from Rubeus Hagrid in Philosopher's Stone. She is killed in the Battle of the Seven Potters near the beginning of Deathly Hallows.

K
Kreacher – House-elf belonging to the Black family. Kreacher was used by Voldemort during the creation of one of his Horcruxes. After Sirius Black's death, Harry becomes Kreacher's master. Although Kreacher is initially reluctant to serve Harry, he eventually becomes loyal to him and his friends. Timothy Bateson and Simon McBurney voice Kreacher in the films.

M
Muriel – Great-aunt of the Weasley children on Molly's side. Dislikes Dumbledore but supports her family and the Order of the Phoenix during the Second Wizarding War. Matyelok Gibbs appears as Muriel in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1.

N
Nagini – Voldemort's massive snake that does his bidding. He communicates with her by speaking Parseltongue, the language of snakes. She is one of his Horcruxes. In Deathly Hallows, Nagini devours Charity Burbage, the Hogwarts Muggle Studies professor. Nagini is later placed inside the corpse of Bathilda Bagshot, which enables a surprise assault on Harry when he visits Godric's Hollow. Nagini is slain by Neville Longbottom during the Battle of Hogwarts. The prequel film Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald reveals that Nagini was once a cursed woman who eventually transformed into a snake. The human Nagini is portrayed by Claudia Kim in the film.
Nearly Headless Nick (Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington) – The Gryffindor house ghost.  Being  nearly headless, he is excluded from the Headless Hunt. He is portrayed by John Cleese in the first two Harry Potter films.

P
Peeves – A mischievous Hogwarts poltergeist. Rowling has explained that Peeves is not a ghost, but rather an "indestructible spirit of chaos". Throughout the series, Peeves listens to only a select few individuals: Albus Dumbledore, the Bloody Baron, Nearly Headless Nick and Fred and George Weasley. The Hogwarts caretaker, Argus Filch, repeatedly tries to remove him from the castle. However, Rowling stated in an interview that not even Dumbledore would be able to remove Peeves from Hogwarts forever. Peeves was portrayed by Rik Mayall in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone, but his scenes were cut from the finished film.

R
Madam Rosmerta – Proprietor of The Three Broomsticks in the village of Hogsmeade. Portrayed by Julie Christie in the film adaptation of Prisoner of Azkaban (2004).

W
Winky – House-elf who belonged to the Crouch family.


================================================================================

# Voldemort

Lord Voldemort ( VOHL-də-mor,  -⁠mort in the films) is a fictional character and the main antagonist in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. He first appears in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) and returns either in person or in flashbacks in each novel in the series except the third, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, in which he is only mentioned.
Lord Voldemort—where "I am Lord Voldemort" is an anagrammatic sobriquet for his birth name Tom Marvolo Riddle—is the archenemy of Harry Potter, who according to a prophecy has "the power to vanquish the Dark Lord". After killing Harry's parents, Lily and James Potter, he attempts to murder the boy, but instead leaves him with a scar on his forehead in the shape of a lightning bolt. Nearly every witch or wizard dares not utter his name and refers to him instead with such monikers as "You-Know-Who", "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named", or The Dark Lord. Voldemort's obsession with blood purity signifies his aim to rid the wizarding world of Muggle (non-magical) heritage and to conquer both worlds, Muggle and wizarding, to achieve pure-blood dominance. Through his mother's family, he is the last descendant of the wizard Salazar Slytherin, one of the four founders of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He is the leader of the Death Eaters, a group of wizards and witches dedicated to ridding the Wizarding World of Muggles and establishing Voldemort as its supreme ruler.

Character development
In a 1999 interview, Rowling claimed Voldemort was invented as a nemesis for Harry Potter, and she intentionally did not flesh out Voldemort's backstory at first. "The basic idea [was that Harry] didn't know he was a wizard ... And so then I kind of worked backwards from that position to find out how that could be, that he wouldn't know what he was. ... When he was one year old, the most evil wizard for hundreds and hundreds of years attempted to kill him. He killed Harry's parents, and then he tried to kill Harry—he tried to curse him. ... Harry has to find out, before we find out. And—so—but for some mysterious reason the curse didn't work on Harry. So he's left with this lightning bolt-shaped scar on his forehead and the curse rebounded upon the evil wizard, who has been in hiding ever since."
In the second book, Rowling establishes that Voldemort hates non-pure-blood wizards, despite being a half-blood himself. In a 2000 interview with the BBC, Rowling described Voldemort as a self-hating bully: "Well I think it is often the case that the biggest bullies take what they know to be their own defects, as they see it, and they put them right on someone else and then they try and destroy the other and that's what Voldemort does." In the same year, Rowling became more precise about Voldemort. She began to link him to real-life tyrants, describing him as "a raging psychopath, devoid of the normal human responses to other people's suffering". In 2004, though, Rowling said that she did not base Voldemort on any real person. In 2006, Rowling told an interviewer that Voldemort at his core has a human fear: the fear of death. She said: "Voldemort's fear is death, ignominious death. I mean, he regards death itself as ignominious. He thinks that it's a shameful human weakness, as you know. His worst fear is death."
Throughout the series, Rowling establishes that Voldemort is so feared in the wizarding world that it is considered dangerous even to speak his name. Most characters in the novels refer to him as "You-Know-Who" or "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named" rather than say his name aloud. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, a "taboo" spell is placed upon the name, such that Voldemort or his followers may trace anyone who utters it. By this means, his followers eventually find and capture Harry and his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. In the second book, Rowling reveals that I am Lord Voldemort is an anagram of the character's birth name, Tom Marvolo Riddle (in translated editions of the book, his middle name or entire birth name is/are often changed in order to allow anagrams to be formed in other languages).
According to the author, Voldemort's name is an invented word. The name Voldemort is derived from the French vol de mort which means "flight of death" or "theft of death".

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone

Voldemort makes his debut in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. In this story, Rowling introduces him as the Dark Lord who tried to kill Harry Potter because the boy was prophesied to destroy him. Voldemort murdered Harry's parents, James and Lily, but as a result of his mother's love and willingness to sacrifice herself for him, baby Harry survived when Voldemort tried to murder him with a Killing Curse. Voldemort was disembodied, and Harry was left with a mysterious, lightning bolt-shaped scar on his forehead as a result.
In the book, Voldemort unsuccessfully tries to regain his dissolved body by stealing the titular Philosopher's Stone. To achieve his objective, Voldemort uses Professor Quirrell's aid by latching onto the back of the latter's head. However, at the climax of the book, Harry manages to prevent Voldemort from stealing the stone.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
In the second installment, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Rowling introduces Voldemort's true identity, former Hogwarts pupil and Slytherin prefect Tom Marvolo Riddle, who appears as a manifestation of the Dark Lord's teenage self that resides inside a magical diary found by Ginny Weasley. In this book, Ginny is written as a shy girl with a crush on Harry. Feeling anxious and lonely, she begins to write into the diary and shares her deepest fears with the sympathetic Tom. However, at the climax of the story, when the manifestation of Riddle rearranges the letters in his name to write "I am Lord Voldemort", it is revealed that Tom and the Dark Lord are just one person and that he is a descendant of one of the school's founders, Salazar Slytherin. Riddle states he has grown strong on Ginny's fears and eventually possesses her, using her as a pawn to unlock the Chamber of Secrets, whence a basilisk is set free and petrifies several Hogwarts students. Harry defeats the manifestation of Riddle from the diary and the basilisk. In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Albus Dumbledore reveals to Harry that the diary was one of Voldemort's Horcruxes.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Voldemort does not appear in the third book, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, either in person or as a magical manifestation. He is, however, heard when Harry passes out from the harsh effects of a Dementor. Towards the end of the story, Sybill Trelawney, the Divination professor, makes a rare genuine prophecy: "The Dark Lord lies alone and friendless, abandoned by his followers. His servant has been chained these twelve years. Tonight, before midnight, the servant will break free and set out to rejoin his master. The Dark Lord will rise again with his servant's aid, greater and more terrible than ever before." The servant is eventually revealed to be Peter Pettigrew, who, for the 12 years since Voldemort's fall, has been disguised as Ron's pet rat, Scabbers.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire

In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), Voldemort reappears at the start and the climax of the book. Rowling lets many seemingly unrelated plot elements fall into order. It is revealed that Voldemort's minion Barty Crouch Jr, disguised as Hogwarts professor Mad-Eye Moody, has manipulated the events of the Triwizard Tournament in Harry's favour. Voldemort's goal is to teleport Harry under Dumbledore's watch as a reluctant participant to the Little Hangleton graveyard, where the Riddle family is buried. Harry is captured and, after Pettigrew uses Harry's blood to fulfil a gruesome magical rite, Voldemort regains his body and is restored to his full power. For the first time in the series, Rowling describes his appearance: "tall and skeletally thin", with a face "whiter than a skull, with wide, livid scarlet eyes and a nose that was as flat as a snake's with slits for nostrils". Rowling writes that his "hands were like large, pale spiders; his long white fingers caressed his own chest, his arms, his face; the red eyes, whose pupils were slits, like a cat's, gleamed still more brightly through the darkness". It is revealed that with Pettigrew's help, Voldemort had created a small, rudimentary body, corporeal enough to travel and perform magic, and formulated a plan to restore his own body by capturing Harry. A portion of the plan had been overheard by Frank Bryce, a gardener, whom Voldemort then killed. Voldemort then completes his plan and returns to life in his full body as a result of the rite with Harry's blood. He then summons his Death Eaters to the graveyard to witness the death of Harry as he challenges Harry to a duel. However, when Voldemort duels Harry, their wands become magically locked together due to the twin phoenix feather cores of the wands. Because of a phenomenon later revealed as Priori Incantatem, ghost-like manifestations of Voldemort's most recent victims (including Harry's parents) then appear and distract Voldemort, allowing Harry just enough time to escape via Portkey with the body of fellow-student, Cedric Diggory, who was murdered by Pettigrew on Voldemort's orders.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Voldemort returns near the end of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003). He engineers a plot to free Bellatrix Lestrange and other Death Eaters from Azkaban and then embarks on a scheme to retrieve the full record of a prophecy stored in the Department of Mysteries regarding Harry and himself. He sends a group of Death Eaters to retrieve the prophecy, where the Order of the Phoenix meets them. All but Bellatrix are captured, and Voldemort engages in a ferocious duel with Dumbledore. When Dumbledore gets the upper hand, Voldemort attempts to possess Harry but finds that he cannot; Harry is too full of that which Voldemort finds incomprehensible, and which he detests as weakness: love. Sensing that Dumbledore could win, Voldemort disapparates, but not before the Minister for Magic sees him in person, making his return to life public knowledge in the next book.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Though Voldemort never physically appears in the sixth book, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005), his rise to power continues to unfold in the background. He murders Amelia Bones of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and begins to target members of the Order of the Phoenix. In a series of flashbacks, it is revealed that Voldemort was the son of the witch Merope Gaunt and a Muggle named Tom Riddle. Riddle abandoned Merope before their child's birth, soon after which Merope died. After living in an orphanage, young Riddle met Dumbledore, who told him he was a wizard and arranged for him to attend Hogwarts. Riddle was outwardly a model student, but inwardly took sadistic pleasure in using his powers to harm and control people. He eventually murdered his father and grandparents as revenge for abandoning him. The book also discusses Riddle's hatred of Muggles, his obsession with Horcruxes, and his desire to split his soul to achieve immortality. Rowling stated that Voldemort's conception under the influence of a love potion symbolises the coercive circumstances under which he was brought into the world.
In the main plot of the book, Voldemort's next step is to engineer an assault on Hogwarts, and to kill Dumbledore. This is accomplished by Draco Malfoy, who arranges transportation of Death Eaters into Hogwarts by a pair of Vanishing Cabinets, which bypass the extensive protective enchantments placed around the school. The cabinets allow Voldemort's Death Eaters to enter Hogwarts, where battle commences and Dumbledore is cornered. Hogwarts professor (and re-doubled agent) Severus Snape uses the Killing Curse against Dumbledore when Draco could not force himself to do so.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007), Voldemort furthers his quest for ultimate power. He disposes of the Minister for Magic and replaces him with Pius Thicknesse, who is under the Imperius Curse. Establishing a totalitarian police state, he has Muggle-borns persecuted and arrested for "stealing magic" from the "pure blood" wizards. After failing to kill Harry with Draco's father Lucius Malfoy's borrowed wand (to avoid the effect of Priori Incantatem), he goes on a murderous search for the Elder Wand, the most powerful wand ever created, seeing it as the weapon he needs to overcome Harry's wand and make him truly invincible. His journey takes him to Nurmengard, the prison where Gellert Grindelwald is kept, and he kills Grindelwald as well. He finally locates the Elder Wand and steals it from Dumbledore's tomb.
Later, Voldemort finds out that Harry and his friends are hunting and destroying his Horcruxes when informed of their heist on the Lestranges' vault at Gringotts in search for Hufflepuff's Cup. After offering the occupants of Hogwarts mercy if they give up Harry, he assembles a large army and launches an invasion of the castle, where Harry is searching for Ravenclaw's Diadem. Voldemort orders his pet snake Nagini to execute Snape, believing it would make him the true master of the Elder Wand, since Snape killed Dumbledore. He then calls an hour's armistice, in exchange for Harry. When Harry willingly walks into Voldemort's camp in the Forbidden Forest, Voldemort strikes him down with the Elder Wand. However, the use of Harry's blood to resurrect Voldemort's body proves to be a major setback: while Harry's blood runs in Voldemort's veins, Harry cannot be killed as his mother's protection lives on now in Voldemort too. Instead, Voldemort unknowingly destroys the part of his own soul that resides in Harry's body.
Voldemort forces Rubeus Hagrid to carry Harry's apparently lifeless body back to the castle as a trophy, sparking another battle during which Nagini, his last Horcrux, is destroyed by Neville Longbottom. The battle then moves into the Great Hall, where Voldemort fights Minerva McGonagall, Kingsley Shacklebolt, and Horace Slughorn simultaneously. Harry then reveals himself and explains to Voldemort that Draco became the true master of the Elder Wand when he disarmed Dumbledore; Harry, in turn, won the wand's allegiance when he took Draco's wand.
Refusing to believe this, Voldemort casts the Killing Curse with the Elder Wand while Harry uses a Disarming Charm with Draco's, but the Elder Wand refuses to kill its master and the spell rebounds on Voldemort who, with all of his Horcruxes destroyed, finally dies.
Rowling stated that after his death, Voldemort is forced to exist in the stunted infant-like form that Harry sees in the King's Cross-like limbo after his confrontation with Voldemort in the Forbidden Forest. Rowling also mentioned that, despite his extreme fear of death, he cannot become a ghost.

Portrayal in films

Voldemort appears in every Harry Potter film, with the exception of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. Several actors have portrayed him in his varying incarnations and ages.
In Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Voldemort's manifestation is as a face on the back of Quirrell's head, an effect achieved by computer-generated imagery. Ian Hart, the actor who played Quirrell in the same film, provided the voice and the facial source for this character. Voldemort also appears in a scene in the Forbidden Forest where he is seen drinking the blood of a unicorn. As Voldemort's face was altered enough by CG work, and Hart's voice was affected enough, there was no confusion by Hart's playing of the two roles. In that film, he was also shown in a flashback sequence when he arrived at the home of James and Lily Potter to kill them. In this scene Voldemort is played by Richard Bremmer, though his face is never seen. His next appearance would be in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets as the 16-year-old Tom Marvolo Riddle (portrayed by Christian Coulson).

In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Voldemort is initially only heard, possessing the scratchy, weak voice heard in the first film. By the film's climax, however, he appears in his physical form for the first time, played by Ralph Fiennes. As in the book, Voldemort is shown clad in dark black robes, being tall and emaciated, with no hair and yellowish teeth; his wand has a white tone, and the handle appears to be made of bone; his fingernails are long and pale blue while his toenails appear to be infected. Unlike in the book, his pupils are not cat-like, and his eyes are blue, because producer David Heyman felt that his evil would not be able to be seen and would not fill the audience with fear (his eyes do briefly take on a snake-like appearance when he opens them after turning human, but quickly turn normal). As in the book, the film version of Voldemort has snake-like slit nostrils with the flesh of his nose significantly pressed back. Ralph Fiennes's nose was not covered in makeup on the set but was digitally removed in post-production. In this first appearance, Voldemort also has a forked tongue, but this element was removed for the subsequent films.
Fiennes stated that he had two weeks to shoot the climactic showdown scene where he is gloating over a terrified Harry, played by Daniel Radcliffe. Fiennes said with a chuckle: "I have no doubt children will be afraid of me now if they weren't before." In preparation, he read the novel Goblet of Fire, but jokingly conceded: "I was only interested in my scene, and I had to go through thousands and thousands of other scenes which I did, dutifully, until I got to my scene and I read it many, many, many, many, many times and that was my research." Fiennes reprised his role as Voldemort in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2.
Fiennes's nephew, Hero Fiennes Tiffin, portrayed Tom Riddle as a child in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. By the time filming arrived Christian Coulson was 29, and not considered suitable to return as the adolescent Riddle. Thomas James Longley was originally scheduled to take over the role, but last minute renegotiations saw Frank Dillane cast instead.

Stage adaptation
In the 2016 stage play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, it is revealed that Bellatrix gave birth to Voldemort's daughter Delphi before the Battle of Hogwarts. Twenty-two years later, Delphi poses as Cedric's cousin and manipulates Harry and Ginny's second son Albus Severus Potter and his friend, Draco and Astoria Greengrass's son Scorpius Malfoy, into stealing a prototype Time Turner with which she hopes to resurrect her father. Using the Time Turner, Scorpius accidentally creates an alternative timeline where Voldemort killed Harry at the battle and now rules the wizarding world. In an attempt to achieve this future, Delphi travels to Godric's Hollow on the night Voldemort killed Harry's parents, hoping to avert the prophecy that led to her father's downfall. After receiving a message from his son, Harry, together with Ron, Hermione and Draco (who by now has become friends with Harry after they join forces to save their respective sons) transfigures himself into Voldemort so that he can distract Delphi, allowing them to overpower her. The real Voldemort kills Harry's parents as prophesied, and Delphi is sent to Azkaban.

Characterisation

Outward appearance
After he regains his body in the fourth book, Rowling describes Voldemort as having pale skin, a chalk-white, skull-like face, snake-like slits for nostrils, red eyes and cat-like slits for pupils, a skeletally thin body and long, thin hands with unnaturally long fingers. As mentioned in the first chapter of the seventh book, he also has no hair or lips. Earlier in life, as seen through flashbacks contained in the second and sixth books, Tom Marvolo Riddle was handsome and tall with pale skin, jet black hair, and dark brown eyes. He could charm many people with his looks. The transformation into his monstrous state is believed to have been the result of creating his Horcruxes and becoming less human as he continued to divide his soul. In the films, Voldemort's eyes are blue with round pupils, as the decision was made not to have his portrayer, Ralph Fiennes, wear colored contact lenses.

Personality
Rowling described Voldemort as "the most evil wizard for hundreds and hundreds of years". She elaborated that he is a "raging psychopath, devoid of the normal human responses to other people's suffering", and whose only ambition in life is to become all-powerful and immortal. He is also a sadist who hurts and murders people—especially Muggles—for his own amusement. He has no conscience, feels no remorse or empathy, and does not recognise the worth and humanity of anybody except himself.
He feels no need for human companionship or friendship, and cannot comprehend love or affection for another. He believes he is superior to everyone around him, to the point that he frequently refers to himself in the third person as "Lord Voldemort". Rowling also stated that Voldemort is "incredibly power hungry. Racist, really", and that if Voldemort were to look into the Mirror of Erised, in which one sees one's greatest desire, he would see "Himself, all-powerful and eternal. That's what he wants."
Rowling also stated that Voldemort's conception by influence of Amortentia—a love potion administered by his mother, a witch named Merope Gaunt, to the Muggle Tom Riddle—is related to his inability to understand love; it is "a symbolic way of showing that he came from a loveless union—but of course, everything would have changed if Merope had survived and raised him herself and loved him. The enchantment under which Tom Riddle fathered Voldemort is important because it shows coercion, and there can't be many more prejudicial ways to enter the world than as the result of such a union".
Like most archetypical villains, Voldemort's arrogance leads to his downfall. He also suffers from a pathological fear of death, which he regards as a shameful and ignominious human weakness. According to Rowling, his Boggart would be his own corpse. Rowling also said that the difference between Harry and Voldemort is that Harry accepts mortality, and thus Harry is, in the end, stronger than his nemesis.

Magical abilities and skills
Rowling establishes Voldemort throughout the series as an extremely powerful, intelligent, and ruthless dark wizard, described as the greatest and most powerful Dark Wizard of all time. He is known as one of the greatest Legilimens in the world and a highly accomplished Occlumens; he can read minds and shield his own from penetration. Besides Dumbledore, he is also the only wizard ever known to be able to apparate silently. Voldemort was also said to fear one wizard alone, Dumbledore.
In the final book, Voldemort flies unsupported, something that amazes those who see it. Voldemort, like his ancestral family, the Gaunts, is a Parselmouth, meaning he can converse with serpents. This skill was inherited from his ancestor, Salazar Slytherin. The Gaunt family speak Parseltongue among themselves. This highly unusual trait may be preserved through inbreeding, a practice employed by the Gaunt Family to maintain their blood's purity. When Voldemort attempts to kill Harry his ability to speak Parseltongue is passed to Harry through the small bit of the former's soul. After that bit of soul is destroyed, Harry loses this ability. In a flashback in the sixth novel, Voldemort boasts to Dumbledore during a job interview that he has "pushed the boundaries of magic farther than they had ever before". Dumbledore states that Voldemort's knowledge of magic is more extensive than any wizard alive and that even Dumbledore's most powerful protective spells and charms would likely be insufficient if Voldemort returned to full power. Dumbledore also said that Voldemort was probably the most brilliant student Hogwarts has ever seen. Although Voldemort remains highly accomplished and prodigious in skill, he is enormously lacking and highly inept in the most powerful magic, love. This inability to love and trust others proves to be Voldemort's greatest weakness in the series. Voldemort initially voices scepticism that his own magic might not be the most powerful, but upon returning to power, he admits to his Death Eaters that he had overlooked the ancient and powerful magic which Lily Potter invoked and that would protect Harry from harm.
On her website, Rowling wrote that Voldemort's wand is made of yew, whose sap is poisonous, and which symbolises death. It forms a deliberate contrast to Harry's wand, which is made of holly, which she chose because holly is alleged to repel evil.
Rowling establishes in the books that Voldemort is magically connected to Harry via Harry's forehead scar. He disembodies himself when his Killing Curse targeting Harry rebounds on him, leaving the scar on Harry's forehead. In the books, and to a lesser extent in the films, Harry's scar serves as an indicator of Voldemort's presence: it burns when the Dark Lord is near or when Voldemort is feeling murderous or exultant. According to Rowling, by attacking Harry when he was a baby Voldemort gave him "tools [that] no other wizard possessed—the scar and the ability it conferred, a magical window into Voldemort's mind".

Family
Voldemort was born Tom Marvolo Riddle on 31 December 1926. His mother Merope died in childbirth, leaving the baby to grow up alone in an orphanage. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, it is revealed that Voldemort murdered his father and grandparents, leaving himself the only surviving member of the Riddle family.

House of Gaunt
Most of the exposition of the House of Gaunt's background occurs in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, through the medium of Dumbledore's Pensieve. The Gaunts were once a powerful and influential family, and are the last known descendants of Salazar Slytherin. However, a vein of mental instability and violence within the family, reinforced through cousin marriages intended to preserve the pureblood line, had reduced them to poverty and squalor, as shown in the Pensieve's "memory" that Harry and Dumbledore witnessed. Like Salazar Slytherin, the Gaunts spoke Parseltongue. At the time of the story, the Gaunts' only material asset is a ramshackle shanty in Little Hangleton, that stood in a thicket in a valley opposite the Riddle House. Like the Riddles, the Gaunts were also unpopular with the local residents, with a reputation for being vulgar and intimidating.
Marvolo Gaunt was the last family patriarch. He was sentenced to a short term in Azkaban for his and his son's assault upon a Ministry of Magic official; this affected his health and he died soon after returning home. His signet ring passed to his son, Morfin Gaunt, who was convicted of assaulting a Muggle, and later died in Azkaban, convicted this time as a party to the murder of Tom Riddle Sr and Riddle's parents.
Dumbledore discovers the real culprit while visiting Morfin in Azkaban to gather information about Voldemort. After Dumbledore successfully extracts Morfin's memory of his encounter with his nephew, he tries to use the evidence to have Morfin released, but Morfin dies before the decision can be made. The House of Gaunt ended with Morfin's death.
Merope Gaunt () was the daughter of Marvolo, and sister of Morfin. Harry's first impression of her was that she looked "like the most defeated person he had ever seen". She married Tom Riddle Sr and became pregnant within three months of the wedding. It is suggested that she tricked her husband into loving her by using a love potion, but sometime during her pregnancy, chose to stop administering the potion. It is implied that Merope had grown tired of living the lie and thought that her husband might have grown to love her, or that he might have stayed for the sake of their unborn child; however, he left her. Desperate, Merope wandered through the streets of London. The only thing she had left was the heavy gold locket that had once belonged to Salazar Slytherin, one of her family's most treasured items, which she sold for a small amount. When she was due to give birth, she stumbled into a Muggle orphanage, where she gave birth to her only son. She died within the next hour.

Reception
Several people have drawn a parallel between Voldemort and some politicians. Rowling has said that Voldemort was "a sort of" Adolf Hitler, and that there is some parallel with Nazism in her books. Rowling also compared Voldemort to Joseph Stalin. Alfonso Cuarón, director of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, compared Voldemort to George W. Bush and Saddam Hussein, who he said "have selfish interests and are very much in love with power. Also, a disregard for the environment. A love for manipulating people." Andrew Slack and the Harry Potter Alliance compare media consolidation in the US to Voldemort's regime in Deathly Hallows and its control over the Daily Prophet and other media, saying, "Once Voldemort took over every form of media in the wizarding world, Dumbledore's Army and the Order of the Phoenix formed an independent media movement called 'Potterwatch'. Now the HP Alliance and Wizard Rock have come together to fight for a Potterwatch movement in the real world to fight back against Big VoldeMedia from further pushing out local and foreign news, minority representation, and the right to a Free Press." Julia Turner of Slate Magazine also noted similarities between the events of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and the war on terror. She said that Voldemort commits acts of terrorism such as destroying bridges, murdering innocents, and forcing children to kill their elders. Rowling compared Voldemort to Donald Trump during his 2016 presidential campaign.
Voldemort has also been compared to other fictional characters, such as Sauron from The Lord of the Rings, as both villains, during the main plot of those series, seek to recover their lost power after having been considered dead or neutralized as a threat, and are also so feared that they are sometimes unnamed.
The entertainment website IGN listed Voldemort as the seventh best Harry Potter character, calling him "truly frightening".

In popular culture
Several campaigns have used Voldemort to compare his evil to the influence of politicians, large media and corporations. "Lord Voldemort" is a nickname sometimes used for Peter Mandelson. Voldemort is also a recurring theme among wizard rock bands. Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock! is the second album from Harry and the Potters, and the character is mentioned in songs such as "The Dark Lord Lament" and "Flesh, Blood, and Bone".
Voldemort also appears in The Potter Puppet Pals sketches by Neil Cicierega. One of the episodes including him was the seventeenth most viewed video of all time as of 2008 and the winner for "Best Comedy" of the year 2007 at YouTube.
"Continuing the Magic", an article in the 21 May 2007 issue of Time, includes mock book covers designed by author Lon Tweeten, laced with pop culture references. One of them, the "Dark Lord of the Dance", shows Voldemort teaming up with Harry on Broadway. In the Mad magazine parodies of the films, the character is called Lord Druckermort, a backwards reference to the magazine's longtime caricaturist Mort Drucker. In Alan Moore's League of Extraordinary Gentlemen: 1969, a young Tom Marvolo Riddle (introduced as "Tom", whose middle name is a "marvel" and last name is a "conundrum") appears, and becomes the new avatar of Oliver Haddo at the story's conclusion. In A Very Potter Musical, Voldemort is played by actor Joe Walker.
In 2011, Voldemort was one of eight British magical figures, which included characters from Arthurian legend, The Chronicles of Narnia, and Discworld, commemorated on a series of UK postage stamps issued by the Royal Mail.
In a segment celebrating British children's literature at the 2012 Summer Olympics opening ceremony in London, an inflatable Voldemort appeared alongside other villains, The Queen of Hearts, Captain Hook, and Cruella de Vil, to haunt children's dreams, before the arrival of a group of over thirty Mary Poppins who descended with their umbrellas to defeat them.
In 2015, British activist Maajid Nawaz used and popularized the term Voldemort effect to describe the inability to name, shame and isolate Islamist extremism from the moderate Muslim community.
During the 2016 United States elections, Daniel Radcliffe was asked by Sky News journalist Craig Dillon if he would compare Donald Trump to Lord Voldemort; Radcliffe responded, "Trump is worse".
Voldemort appears in The Lego Batman Movie as one of the prisoners in the Phantom Zone that Joker recruits to take over Gotham City. Though Ralph Fiennes is featured in this movie as the voice of the British butler Alfred Pennyworth, he does not reprise his role as Voldemort. Instead, Voldemort is voiced by Eddie Izzard.
Outside of the Harry Potter video games, Voldemort is also a playable character in Lego Dimensions, with archive audio of Fiennes' portrayal in the films used for his voiceovers.
A 2018 Italian fan film titled Voldemort: Origins of the Heir depicts the story of Tom Riddle's rise to power.
Voldemort appears in Space Jam: A New Legacy, in the crowd for the game between the Tune Squad and the Goon Squad.
An upcoming French fan-made short-film titled The House of Gaunt - Lord Voldemort Origins explores the origin story of Voldemort and The Gaunt family.
In the Breaking Bad spinoff Better Call Saul, Saul Goodman, speaking to Mike Ehrmantraut, nicknames the drug lord Gus Fring 'He Who Shall Not Be Named' in reference to Voldemort.
In May 2022, senior Australian Labor Party MP Tanya Plibersek compared former defence minister Peter Dutton from the Liberal Party of Australia to Voldemort. During a discussion about Dutton's prospects of becoming Liberal Party leader on Brisbane radio station 4BC, she said: "I think there will be a lot of children who have watched a lot of Harry Potter films who will be very frightened of what they are seeing on TV at night, that's for sure... I am saying he looks a bit like Voldemort and we will see whether he can do what he promised he would do when he was last running for leader which is smile more." A spokesperson from Plibersek's office said that she had reached out to Dutton soon after the interview to offer an unreserved apology and to say that she should have not made the remark. Labor Party leader, prime minister Anthony Albanese said Pilbersek's comments were "not acceptable" and that she had done the right thing in offering an apology. Dutton confirmed Plibersek had apologised. In response, Dutton said that while the comments were unfortunate, they were "water off a duck's back." He said that he realised that he was "not the prettiest bloke on the block" and said that he was bald due to being diagnosed with a skin condition.


================================================================================

# Love Is Love (comics)

Love Is Love is a 144-page graphic novel released in December 2016 by IDW Publishing in collaboration with DC Entertainment with many characters appearing from other publishers and franchises with explicit permission in tribute to the victims of the Orlando nightclub shooting. The comic became a New York Times bestseller and over US$165,000 was raised by the sales, which was donated to the victims. The comic was produced with volunteer work by dozens of artists and featured the first official comic based on the Harry Potter media franchise.

Background

On the 12th of June, 2016, Omar Mateen shot and killed 49 people and wounded 53 others at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida. The nightclub was a gay bar and the perpetrator had decided to commit a mass shooting in response to the United States' airstrike a month prior that killed Abu Waheeb, a leader of the Islamic State in Anbar, Iraq. No evidence points to Mateen knowing the Pulse was a gay bar.

Publication history

Format
Unlike most graphic novels, the book is a mass anthology with one or two-page-long shorts, comic strips or single illustrated pages lacking panels or dialogue bubbles. IDW Publishing simply referred to it as an "oversize comic", as did Goodreads, Geek.com, and Comic Book Resources.

List of contributors
The following is a list of contributors listed in the Love is Love comic.

Writers

Pencillers

Inkers

Colourists

Letterers

Editors
Marc Andreyko
Sarah Gaydos
Robert 'Bob' Harras
David Hedgecock
Maggie Howell
Jamie S. Rich
Chris Ryall

Cover artists
Jordie Bellaire
Elsa Charretier
Steven Cook

Other creators

Stories
Many of the stories featured in Love is Love revolve around LGBT-related relationships and discrimination, and they sometimes utilize pop culture icons such as Poison Ivy, Harley Quinn, Deathstroke, and Wonder Woman. One tale is about a forgotten Golden Age superhero, Rainbow Boy, who uses his powers to fight "Doc Drumpf" and his armies of "Spider Haters".

Reception
Love is Love won the 2017 Eisner Award for Best Anthology. The book holds an average rating of 9.6 by five professional critics on the review aggregation website Comic Book Roundup.
The book was banned in a Texas school due to "extreme homosexuality".


================================================================================

# Luna Lovegood

Luna Lovegood is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. She first appears in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003). She is portrayed by Evanna Lynch in the Harry Potter films.

Characterisation
The "first intimation" of Luna was originally called Lily Moon. Rowling envisioned her as a "fey, dreamy girl" and her surname (Moon) is mentioned during Harry's Sorting Ceremony. Rowling has described Luna as the "anti-Hermione" because Luna arrives at beliefs through faith, while Hermione relies on facts and logic. Hermione repeatedly tries to convince Luna that her beliefs are nonsense, but this only annoys Luna, which is rare. Luna is perceptive about human nature, and Harry notes her knack for blunt honesty, which can be uncomfortable, but always eye-opening and true. She holds her friends in high regard; she painted portraits of Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Neville on the ceiling of her room, with links around them that say friends (as seen in the seventh book/movie). Luna's father is Xenophilius Lovegood, the editor of the magazine The Quibbler. Luna witnessed the death of her mother when she was nine years old, so she can see Thestrals.
In interviews following the release of Deathly Hallows, Rowling revealed facts about Luna's life after Hogwarts. Luna pursues a career as a "magizoologist": a zoologist for magical creatures. She discovers many new species of animals and becomes quite famous for it. She marries Rolf Scamander, who is a fellow naturalist and the grandson of Newt Scamander. Luna and Rolf have twin sons, Lorcan and Lysander.

Appearances

Novels
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000) has the very first and only brief mention of the surname Lovegood in the beginning. Luna herself first appears in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003) as a Ravenclaw student, sorted due to her wit and creativity, found to be one year below Harry. Other students call her "Loony Lovegood” due to the fact that many view her beliefs as “strange”. She and her father, Xenophilius, believe the claims made by Harry and Albus Dumbledore that Lord Voldemort has returned. Luna and Hermione Granger persuade the journalist Rita Skeeter to interview Harry so his claims can be published in The Quibbler, a magazine edited by Xenophilius. During the course of the novel, Luna practices her defensive spellcasting as a member of Dumbledore's Army. Near the end of the story, she participates in the battle with Death Eaters at the Ministry of Magic. In Half-Blood Prince (2005), Luna attends Horace Slughorn's Christmas party with Harry. When Death Eaters attack Hogwarts, Luna, Ginny and Neville attempt to protect the school.
Luna does her sixth year at Hogwarts in Deathly Hallows (2007). She and Ginny help Neville revive Dumbledore's Army, which infuriates the Death Eaters who are now in control of the school. Hoping to aid Harry on his quest to destroy Horcruxes, Luna and her friends try to steal the Sword of Gryffindor from the office of Severus Snape. They are caught and given a lenient punishment: a trip to the Forbidden Forest with Rubeus Hagrid. While travelling home for Christmas on the Hogwarts Express, Luna is kidnapped by Death Eaters. They hold her hostage to stop her father from publishing content supportive of Harry in The Quibbler. Harry, Ron and Hermione are also captured by Voldemort's followers, who imprison them in the cellar of Malfoy Manor with Luna and Mr Ollivander. All the prisoners are eventually rescued by the house-elf Dobby.
In the Battle of Hogwarts, Luna summons her Patronus, a hare, to fend off hundreds of Dementors that are about to attack her friends. Luna, Hermione and Ginny duel Bellatrix Lestrange until Molly Weasley intervenes and kills Bellatrix. After the battle, Luna helps Harry slip away from the celebratory crowd to find some peace and quiet. The novel's epilog reveals that Harry and Ginny have a daughter named Lily. In an ITV documentary, Rowling said that Lily's middle name is Luna.

Film adaptations
Luna appears in the film versions of Order of the Phoenix (2007), Half-Blood Prince (2009), and Deathly Hallows – Part 1 (2010) and Part 2 (2011). Evanna Lynch was cast in the role over Saoirse Ronan. Rowling called Lynch "perfect" for the role. When developing the visual style of Luna's character, costume designer Jany Temime stated that Luna "is clearly a girl with her own tastes and her own hobbies, which include making her own jewelry". Thus, Luna's distinctive radish-shaped earrings and Butterbeer-cap necklace referenced in the books are featured in the films. Her "folk art" aura was developed with mismatched outfits in predominantly purple and blue hues featuring animals or natural elements.

Reception
The entertainment website IGN ranked Luna as the 12th best Harry Potter character. The website called Luna heroic and said she plays a critical role in the student group Dumbledore's Army. Empire magazine listed Luna as the 10th best character in the Harry Potter franchise.


================================================================================

# Fictional universe of Harry Potter

The fictional universe of the Harry Potter series of novels contains two distinct societies: the "wizarding world" and the "Muggle world". The term "Muggle world" refers to a society inhabited by non-magical humans ("Muggles"), while the term "wizarding world" refers to a society of wizards that live parallel to Muggles. The wizarding world is described as a veiled society wherein magic is commonly used and practised; the wizards live in self-enforced seclusion and hide their abilities from Muggles. The novels are set in 1990s Britain, which contains both Muggle and wizard communities. Any new works taking place in this universe are released under the Wizarding World brand.

Fundamentals
The plot of the Harry Potter series occurs between 1991 and 1998. The exceptions are the opening chapter of the first novel, which takes place in 1981, and the epilogue of the seventh novel, which takes place in 2017. Evidence of this time period comes in the second novel, when the ghost character Nearly Headless Nick is celebrating the 500th anniversary of his 1492 death. At various points throughout the Harry Potter timeline, flashbacks and flash-forwards depict time periods ranging from the 1920s to the 2020s. The depiction of the wizarding world is centred on magic, which not only imbues objects such as wands, but is also portrayed as an inborn ability of individuals. This organic ability can be honed and mastered through study and practice.
Wizards expend a great deal of effort keeping Muggles unaware of magic and the wizarding world. The novels explain that in the past, the two worlds co-existed. Over the centuries, persecution of wizards by Muggles resulted in the creation of laws designed to keep the wizarding world hidden, such as the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy of 1692. Enchantment of Muggle artifacts is forbidden, underage wizards are restricted from using magic outside of school, and any deliberate revelation of magical ability to the Muggle community is punishable. These laws are enforced by the British Ministry of Magic and the International Confederation of Wizards. There are some exceptions: Muggle relatives of British wizards are allowed to know about the wizarding world, as is the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
The film Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) depicts wizarding laws in the United States during the 1920s. These laws differ in some ways from those in 1990s Britain. For example, the film reveals that American wizards are forbidden from having any social relationships with non-magical people.
In the Harry Potter series, some aspects of the wizarding world are depicted as being less-than-modern compared to the Muggle world. Candles are used for illumination instead of electrical or gas lamps, and owls are used to send messages instead of phone calls or emails. Instead of using pens or computers to take notes and write essays, Hogwarts students use ink-dipped quills and parchment. Wizards do not use paper currency, but instead rely on three types of coins: the gold Galleon, the silver Sickle, and the bronze Knut. The wizarding world does have at least one train, the Hogwarts Express, which is pulled by a steam locomotive. The novels depict wizards using a magic-powered equivalent to radio, but there is not an equivalent to television.

Magic
J. K. Rowling, the creator of Harry Potter, based many magical elements in her fictional universe on real-world mythology and folklore. She has described this derivation as "a way of giving texture to the world". Before publishing the first Harry Potter novel, Rowling spent five years establishing the limitations of magic – determining what it can and cannot do. "The most important thing to decide when you're creating a fantasy world," she said in 2000, "is what the characters can't do." In the novels, the character Hermione Granger explains that food cannot be conjured out of thin air. Wizards can prepare it using magic and even multiply it, but they cannot create it. According to Rowling, money also cannot be conjured from nothing.
Wizards must learn how to control their magic. In young and untrained children, magical effects will occur spontaneously during moments of strong emotion. In the novels, almost all intentional magic is performed with a wand.
Spells are the every-purpose tools of a wizard. They are generally short bursts of magic used to accomplish a specialised task, such as creating fire or unlocking a door. Casting a spell usually requires the movement of a wand and the uttering of an incantation. The language of the incantations in the Harry Potter novels has been described as modified Latin. Although wizards in the novels almost always use a wand for casting spells, Rowling has used the Wizarding World website to describe certain wizarding cultures that practise magic without a wand.

Geography

The wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe is embedded within the Muggle world. Wizards often live in magical enclaves within Muggle villages, such as Godric's Hollow in the West Country. Many wizarding homes in Harry Potter are depicted as being on the outskirts of a Muggle town. Only one settlement in Britain, the village of Hogsmeade, is home to an entirely magical population.
The wizarding high street of central London, Diagon Alley, lies just off Charing Cross Road. The Hogwarts Express train departs from King's Cross station using the fictional Platform 9¾. Magical locations are hidden by a combination of Muggle-repelling charms, illusions, and other protections. Some magical locations, such as the prison Azkaban and the stadium used for the Quidditch World Cup, are rendered "unplottable", meaning they are impossible to locate on a map. The castle of Hogwarts appears as abandoned ruins to any Muggle close enough to see.

Blood purity

Some characters in the Harry Potter franchise refer to wizard families with ancestry that never inter-married with Muggles as "Pureblood." The term is used by villainous characters such as Voldemort and Malfoy with a connotation of superiority. In contrast, a witch or wizard who was descended from non-magical people, such as Hermione Granger, is pejoratively referred to as a "Mudblood" by such characters.
"Half-blood" is the term applied to wizards who have both magical and Muggle ancestry. Half-blood is the most common blood status, outnumbering pure-bloods and Muggle-borns. Rowling has stated that no bloodline is truly "pure," but those who wish to claim purity deny the existence of Muggles and squibs in their ancestry.
"Squib" is the term applied to a person who is born to magical parents, but has no magical abilities. Such characters include Argus Filch and Arabella Figg.
Some wizards are the offspring of unions between humans and magical creatures. Examples include the sisters Fleur and Gabrielle Delacour, who are granddaughters of a veela; Rubeus Hagrid, who is half-giant; and Filius Flitwick, who has goblin ancestry.

Dark Arts
The Dark Arts are magical spells and practices that are usually used for malicious purposes. Practitioners of the Dark Arts are referred to as Dark wizards such as Voldemort and his followers, the Death Eaters. The type of spells characteristic of the Dark Arts are known as curses, which usually cause harm to the target. In the wizarding world, use of the Dark Arts is strongly stigmatised and certain spells are illegal. Hogwarts and other schools instruct students in Defence Against the Dark Arts. Some schools, such as Durmstrang, teach Dark magic. While Hogwarts is under Death Eaters' control, a Dark Arts class is taught.
Three "Unforgivable Curses" are introduced in Harry Potter, which are punishable by a life sentence in Azkaban prison. These are the "Killing Curse" (avada kedavra) causing immediate death, the "Cruciatus Curse" (crucio) causing intense pain, and the "Imperius Curse" (imperio) used for mind control or hypnosis.

Death
In Goblet of Fire, Albus Dumbledore tells Harry and Sirius Black that magic cannot truly and permanently bring dead individuals back to life. However, there are methods of communicating with the dead in a limited way. For example, all Hogwarts headmasters appear in a magical portrait when they die, which allows future generations to consult with them. However, the portrait is a reflection of who the wizard was, and is not a link to their spirit. The Resurrection Stone allows the bearer to speak with the dead, but it cannot bring the dead back into the living world.
Likewise, it is not possible to make oneself immortal unless one uses an object of great power to sustain life, such as the Philosopher's Stone or a Horcrux. If one were to possess the three Deathly Hallows, it is fabled that they would possess the tools to become the "master of death". Other methods of extending life include drinking unicorn blood, which will keep a person alive even if death is imminent, but at the price of being cursed forever. Being magical can contribute to one's longevity, as there are several characters in the series who are unusually long-lived. It is revealed by Nearly Headless Nick in the fifth novel that all wizards have the choice of becoming ghosts upon dying; however, it is described as "a pale imitation of life". Rowling has stated that death is the most important theme in the novels.

Magical creatures

The Harry Potter universe is home to many magical creatures. Some are derived from real-world folklore and mythology, while others were created by Rowling. Some are modified versions of creatures from real-world lore. A few of the creatures featured in the series include:

Acromantula — A gigantic spider that is capable of human speech. The acromantula is an invention of Rowling.
Basilisk — A giant snake-like reptile, originating in European classical mythology. In the Harry Potter universe, a person or animal will die if they make direct eye contact with a basilisk, but will be merely petrified (immobilized) if they make indirect eye contact, such as through a mirror.
Centaur — A mythical creature, originating in Greek mythology, with a head and torso resembling those of a human, and with a lower body resembling that of a horse. Centaurs live in forests and are skilled in healing and astrology. Centaurs who associate with humans are often seen as traitors to their kind.
Dementor — A tall, skeletal, black-cloaked creature that drains happiness from people and forces them to relive their worst memories. They can suck a person's soul out through their mouth, which is known as the "Dementor's Kiss". The dementor is an original creation of Rowling.
Giant — A humanoid creature commonly found in all folklore around the globe. In the Harry Potter world, giants have considerable immunity to magical attacks. They can interbreed with humans, but wizards have actively driven them out of civilisation.
Goblin — A short and stocky humanoid with black eyes, a domed head and long fingers, originating in European mythology. Goblins run Gringotts Bank and speak a language known as Gobbledegook.
Hippogriff — A mythical creature that is part-eagle, part-horse. Wizards can own hippogriffs provided they cast a daily Disillusionment Charm on them.
House-elf — A type of short, skinny, intensely magical humanoid based on the brownie / broonie of Scottish folklore. Witches and wizards enslave house-elves and they wear discarded items such as pillowcases as part of their servitude, and are freed by being given an item of clothing.
Thestral — A carnivorous species of winged horse visible only to those who have experienced loss through death. They are described as having dragon-like faces, blank white eyes, large leathery wings and a black coat which clings to their almost-skeletal bodies. Hogwarts has a semi-tamed herd of thestrals, which pull the carriages that transport students to the castle. Thestrals can be ridden by wizards. The thestral is an original creation of Rowling.
Veela — A nymph / fairy, originating in Slavic folklore, that sometimes resembles an exceptionally beautiful woman, and sometimes resembles a harpy. Veela are known for having the power to bewitch and enchant men.
Werewolf — A cursed human who transforms into a wolf-like creature during the full moon. The person has no control over the process and cannot choose whether or not it occurs. The werewolves in Harry Potter are derived from those found in real-world folklore.

Organisations
The Ministry of Magic is the government of the British wizarding community. The Minister for Magic, Cornelius Fudge, first appears in Chamber of Secrets. The Ministry of Magic is located in London and can be accessed by apparating, Floo travel or by a certain broken-down telephone box.
Young wizards in Britain usually attend Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Following completion of a Hogwarts education, there is no standard tertiary education, and there are no known wizard universities. Successful Hogwarts students are considered ready to function as adults, though some wizarding professions require special training programmes after Hogwarts. These include the professions of the Auror and the Healer. In addition to Hogwarts, the novels mention the French wizarding school Beauxbatons and the Northern European school Durmstrang. In 2016, Rowling created four additional schools and described them on the Wizarding World website. These four schools are Ilvermorny (United States), Castelobruxo (Brazil), Mahoutokoro (Japan) and Uagadou (Africa).

Communication
Wizards use owls to deliver mail, newspapers and parcels. The novels do not explain how an owl locates a recipient.
Characters painted into magical portraits can carry messages between locations where their portraits hang. For example, the former Hogwarts headmaster Phineas Nigellus travels between Dumbledore's office and his other portrait in Grimmauld Place.
Voldemort communicates with his underlings through the "Dark Mark", a brand that can be made to hurt remotely, signalling them to return to Voldemort.
Another form of closed communication used in the books and films is a set of mirrors that belonged to Sirius Black. Sirius gives Harry one mirror in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, with a note explaining to Harry that Sirius and James Potter used to use the mirrors to talk to each other when they were put in separate detentions. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Harry uses a shard of his broken mirror to call for help.

Transportation

Apparition
Apparating is disappearing from a place and appearing almost instantly in another. Wizards and witches often Apparate to their destinations, which is quite similar to teleportation. It is quite difficult to Apparate; therefore underage wizards and witches are forbidden to do it. There are many examples of failed Apparition attempts made by people who have not passed their "Apparition test", which is like a Muggle driving test. If not Apparating correctly, a person may lose a body part in the process, referred to as "splinching". In Deathly Hallows, Ron gets splinched after being grabbed by Yaxley, a Death Eater.

Other objects
The Harry Potter series features the "Floo Network", a mass-transit system that allows its users to travel to places such as the Ministry of Magic. "Portkeys" are mundane-looking objects that instantly transport people who touch them.
Characters in the series make use of several magical devices and artefacts to transport themselves within the Wizarding World and to the Muggle world. Among the most common of these objects are broomsticks, the Floo Network (a network of fireplaces magically connected to one another), the Knight Bus, and the Hogwarts Express. Some characters have been known to enchant Muggle vehicles to have magical features, such as Arthur Weasley's Ford Anglia or Sirius Black's Flying Motorbike. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, a discussion is held around the politics of importing flying carpets.

Media

The Daily Prophet
The Daily Prophet is the most widely read daily newspaper in Britain's wizard community. Its journalistic integrity is lacking; it has been known to be more concerned about sales than about factual accuracy and is often a mouthpiece for the Ministry of Magic. As described by Rita Skeeter, "The Prophet exists to sell itself!"
The Prophet remains respectable for the first three books, but by Goblet of Fire, it has hired Rita Skeeter, an unscrupulous journalist who supplies several thrilling and blatantly false articles. When Minister Fudge takes the stance of firmly denying Voldemort's return, the Prophet initiates a smear campaign against Dumbledore and Harry, the most influential proponents of the opposing view. After Fudge is forced to admit that Voldemort has returned, the Prophet changes its stance overnight, calling Harry "a lone voice of truth".
According to Rowling, Ginny Weasley becomes Senior Quidditch correspondent at the Prophet after the events of the novels.

The Quibbler
The Quibbler is a magazine first mentioned in Order of the Phoenix. It is edited by Xenophilius Lovegood and often prints articles about conspiracy theories and cryptozoology. In Order of the Phoenix, Hermione blackmails Rita Skeeter into writing an article about Harry's encounter with Voldemort. The interview is published by Xenophilius, and he later sells it to the Daily Prophet.

Food and leisure

Butterbeer
Butterbeer is a drink popular with young wizards. It can be served cold or hot, but either way it has a warming effect. Rowling said she imagines it tastes like "less-sickly" butterscotch. Even though it has very little alcohol, it is very strong for house elves, as Winky ended up developing an addiction for it after Barty Crouch Sr. sacked her. The Wizarding World of Harry Potter themed area at the Universal Orlando resort sells a line of food and beverages inspired by Butterbeer, and the Jelly Belly candy company has produced Butterbeer-inspired sweets. The celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal created a version of the drink for his show "Heston's Tudor Feast".

Magical sweets
Many types of magical sweets are mentioned in the series. Some have bizarre side effects, particularly those created by Fred and George Weasley. Chocolate Frogs are packaged with collectible cards depicting famous wizards. According to Rowling, Harry and his friends are featured on Chocolate Frog cards after the events of the novels. Both Chocolate Frogs and Bertie Bott's Every-Flavour Beans have been manufactured in the real world. The Bertie Bott's Beans produced by Jelly Belly include flavours such as black pepper, dirt, earwax, grass, sausage, soap, and vomit. The Hershey company has also produced various candy items based on Harry Potter.

Quidditch

The most prominent sport in the Harry Potter universe is Quidditch, which is a team sport played up in the air on broomsticks. Every House at Hogwarts has a Quidditch team and competes in the Quidditch Cup. Outside of Hogwarts, the Quidditch World Cup is a major international event that draws teams and spectators from countries around the world.

Wizard's Chess
Wizard's Chess is a version of chess played with pieces that are magically animated. In Philosopher's Stone, Harry, Ron and Hermione become human chess pieces in a life-sized game of Wizard's Chess, which Harry wins thanks to Ron's skill at the game.


================================================================================

# Magical objects in Harry Potter

Magical objects make frequent appearances in the Harry Potter novels and film adaptations.

Deathly Hallows

The Deathly Hallows are three very powerful and magical objects that appear in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows and most of the other books in the Harry Potter series. They are the Elder Wand, the Resurrection Stone, and the Cloak of Invisibility. The Original owners are: Antioch Peverell, Cadmus Peverell, and Ignotus Peverell respectively. According to wizarding legend, they can provide mastery over death if one person owns all three Hallows. The objects are generally remembered only as part of an in-universe fairy tale called "The Tale of the Three Brothers". According to J. K. Rowling, this fictional fairy tale is based on "The Pardoner's Tale" by Geoffrey Chaucer.
In the narrative, Harry Potter eventually comes to possess all three Hallows—the Invisibility Cloak being inherited from his father, James Potter, who is later understood to be a descendant of one of the three brothers from the story, the Resurrection Stone in the Golden Snitch bequeathed to him by Dumbledore, and the allegiance and mastery of the Elder Wand when he defeats and disarms its prior owner, Draco Malfoy, who unwittingly won it from Dumbledore just before Dumbledore's death.

The Elder Wand
The Elder Wand is described in Deathly Hallows as a legendary and extremely powerful wand made of elder wood with a core of Thestral tail hair. Harry discovers that the Elder Wand's allegiance is transferred when its owner is killed, defeated, or disarmed. Through a series of events, Voldemort comes to possess the Elder Wand, even though Harry is its true master. Unaware of the wand's loyalty to Harry, Voldemort attempts to duel him near the end of the novel. The wand refuses to kill Harry, with the result that Voldemort's curse rebounds on him, and he dies. After Voldemort's death, Harry uses the Elder Wand to repair his own broken wand. He then returns the Elder Wand to Dumbledore's tomb. In Part 2 of the film adaptation of Deathly Hallows, Harry, realizing the wand is too dangerous to fall into the wrong hands, snaps it in two and throws the pieces off a bridge.
J. K. Rowling revealed in an interview that the first working title for Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows was Harry Potter and the Elder Wand.

The Resurrection Stone
The book presents the Resurrection Stone as allowing the bearer to communicate with the dead. The stone generates the form of Harry's dead godfather, Sirius Black, who tells Harry that he and the other forms created by the stone are part of him and invisible to others. According to the fairy tale concerning the origin of the Deathly Hallows, using the Resurrection Stone drove its first owner to kill himself because he brought his late fiancée back from the dead, and she was very unhappy in the living world because she did not belong there. By the time the stone was seen in Marvolo Gaunt's possession, it had been set into a ring that bore the symbol of the Deathly Hallows, which the ignorant Gaunt believed to be the Peverell coat of arms; he used the ring to boast about his ancestry and blood purity. Harry said this is the Hallow he would desire most, as like Dumbledore he could name people he would like to communicate with again. Voldemort became aware of the ring's antiquity and eventually used it as a Horcrux, a container for part of his soul, being unaware of the stone's additional magical properties.
Dumbledore is depicted as having recovered the ring from Marvolo's estate, recognizing it as both a Horcrux and one of the Deathly Hallows. Forgetting that as a Horcrux, it was likely to be protected by curses laid by Voldemort, and blinded by personal desire, Dumbledore attempted to use the Resurrection Stone to talk to his deceased family. The curse disfigured his hand and began to spread into his body. Although Snape partly contained the spread in the damaged and blackened hand, Dumbledore was doomed to have, at most, a year left to live.
The stone is later passed to Harry through Dumbledore's will. Harry uses the Stone to summon his deceased loved ones – his parents, his godfather Sirius Black, and Remus Lupin – to comfort him and strengthen his courage, before he goes to meet his death at Voldemort's hand. The stone falls unseen from Harry's fingers in the Forbidden Forest as he reaches Voldemort's encampment. Harry survives the encounter and he and Dumbledore's portrait later agreed that Harry will neither search for the stone nor tell others where it is.

The Cloak of Invisibility
In the Harry Potter universe, an invisibility cloak is a rare type of cloak used to make the wearer invisible. Rowling's 2001 book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them states that invisibility cloaks may be crafted from Demiguise pelts. Invisibility cloaks can also be ordinary cloaks with a Disillusionment Charm or a Bedazzlement Hex placed on them. Over time, these cloaks will lose their invisibility.
In the novels, Harry owns an invisibility cloak which is later revealed to be a Hallow. Unlike other invisibility cloaks, the Cloak of Invisibility cannot be worn out by time or spells. The Hallow Cloak belonged to Ignotus Peverell and was passed down to his descendant, James Potter. After James's death, Dumbledore gives the Cloak to Harry, who uses it throughout the series to sneak around Hogwarts and other places undetected on various adventures.

Detectors

Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody's Eyeball
In the Harry Potter series, Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody lost his eye and replaced it with an enchanted glass eyeball during the First Wizarding War. With the eyeball, Moody can see through solid objects, invisibility cloaks, and the back of his own head. Following Moody's death in Deathly Hallows, the eyeball ends up in the possession of Dolores Umbridge. When Harry infiltrates the Ministry of Magic, he steals the eyeball from her office and buries it in the forest.

Foe-glass
A Foe-glass is a mirror that shows the enemies of its owner.

The Marauder's Map
In the story, the Marauder's Map is a magical map of Hogwarts created by Harry's godfather,  Sirius Black, Harry's third year Defense against the Dark Arts professor Remus Lupin, Death Eater Peter Pettigrew, and Harry's biological father, James Potter while they were students at the school. The four marauders nicknames were Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and Prongs (not respectively). In Prisoner of Azkaban, Fred and George Weasley give the map to Harry so he can travel to Hogsmeade through a hidden passageway. The map is a blank piece of parchment when not in use, but it becomes a detailed layout of Hogwarts when it is activated. It shows the locations of secret passages and instructions on how to access them. It also depicts the location of every individual at Hogwarts in real-time, including their movements.  It is opened when the individual says "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good" and closed when the individual says the phrase "mischief managed", which is also the name of the final track in that book's film adaptation.

Probity Probe
A Probity Probe detects hidden magical objects and concealment spells. Probity Probes are depicted as thin golden rods in Order of the Phoenix. After Voldemort's return, Probes are used to protect Gringotts Bank and to scan Hogwarts students for Dark objects.

Remembrall
A Remembrall is a small glass orb. It contains smoke that turns red when the person holding it has forgotten something. It does not tell the holder what has been forgotten. Neville Longbottom is sent a Remembrall by his grandmother in Philosopher's Stone.

Revealer
A Revealer is a bright red eraser, used to make invisible ink appear. It first appears in Chamber of Secrets when Hermione tries to make hidden writing appear in Tom Riddle's diary.

Secrecy Sensor
A Secrecy Sensor is a Dark detector that looks like "an extra-squiggly, golden television aerial". It vibrates when it detects concealment and lies. In Half-Blood Prince, every student and owl entering Hogwarts is inspected with Secrecy Sensors to ensure no Dark objects enter the school.

Sneakoscope
In the Harry Potter universe, a Sneakoscope serves as a Dark Arts detector. The device is described as a miniature glass spinning-top that emits shrill noises in the presence of deception, for instance, when an untrustworthy person is near or when a deceitful event takes place nearby.

Weasley family clock
The Weasleys have a special clock in their home with nine hands, one for every member of the family. Instead of telling the time, the clock reveals the location or status of each family member. The known locations are: Home, School, Work, Travelling, Lost, Hospital, Prison, and Mortal Peril.
In the sixth novel, all nine hands point to mortal peril at all times, except when someone is travelling. Mrs. Weasley takes this to mean that with Voldemort's return, everyone is always in mortal peril, but she cannot verify this as she does not know anyone else who has a clock like hers.
Various fans have re-created the clock for their own families, for example by using geofencing for mobile phones.

Horcruxes
Originally discovered by dark wizard, Herpo "The Foul". A Horcrux is an object used to store part of a wizard's soul, which protects them from death. If the body of a Horcrux owner is destroyed, that portion of the soul that had remained in the body does not pass on to the next world, but will rather exist in a non-corporeal form capable of being resurrected by another wizard, as stated in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and demonstrated in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. If all of someone's Horcruxes are destroyed, then the soul's only anchor in the material world would be the body, the destruction of which would then cause death. The creation of Horcruxes is considered the darkest of all magic.
This method was chosen by Voldemort to attain immortality. J. K. Rowling uses Horace Slughorn's expository dialogue to reveal that the creation of a Horcrux requires one to commit a murder, which, as the supreme act of evil, "rips the soul apart". After the murder, a spell is cast to infuse part of the ripped soul into an object, which then becomes a Horcrux. In the final book of the series, Hermione finds the spell in a book titled Secrets of the Darkest Art. Rowling has revealed that she intends to detail the process and spell used to create a Horcrux in her long-mentioned Harry Potter Encyclopedia.
Both inanimate objects and living organisms have been used as Horcruxes, though the latter are considered riskier to use, since a living being can move and think for itself. There is no limit to the number of Horcruxes a witch or wizard can create. As the creator's soul is divided into progressively smaller portions, they lose more of their natural humanity and the soul becomes increasingly unstable. Consequently, under very specific conditions, a soul fragment can be sealed within an object without the intention or knowledge of the creator. While the object thus affected will, like any Horcrux, preserve the immortality of the creator, it does not become a "Dark object". If a living being becomes a Horcrux it gives a measure of telepathy to both the creator and the Horcrux. For example, Voldemort has unusual control over Nagini, and consequently Nagini is able to communicate with Voldemort about the presence of Harry in Godric's Hollow in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Horcruxes made from inanimate objects cannot be destroyed by conventional means such as smashing, breaking, or burning. The Horcrux must suffer enough damage that it cannot be repaired magically. The known materials or objects that can destroy Horcruxes are Basilisk venom, the Sword of Gryffindor (which contains Basilisk venom after Harry uses it to kill a Basilisk), and Fiendfyre, which is a magical flame that cannot be extinguished unless it runs out of fuel.
Voldemort's creation of Horcruxes is central to the later storyline of the Harry Potter novels. Voldemort intended to split his soul into seven pieces, with six Horcruxes and the last piece reposing within his body. When Voldemort attacked the Potter family, and his body was destroyed by the rebounded Killing Curse, a piece of his soul splintered off and attached itself to the only living thing remaining in the room, Harry Potter, in a manner similar to a Horcrux. Voldemort went on to complete his collection of the intended six Horcruxes by turning his snake Nagini into one, thus fragmenting his soul into a total of eight (counting the one residing in his own body), not seven, pieces. By that time, though, unbeknownst to Voldemort himself, the first Horcrux (a diary) had already been destroyed, therefore all seven Horcruxes never existed together at the same point in time.
All of Voldemort's deliberately created Horcruxes were made using objects that had been important to him or that held some symbolic value. He hid some of them carefully so that no one could find and destroy them, but used Nagini to do his bidding on several occasions, and the diary was always intended to be a weapon to carry out Voldemort's plan to remove Muggle-borns from Hogwarts. In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, the discovery of Voldemort's diary is revealed as the proof that led to Dumbledore beginning the hunt for other Horcruxes, as it not only gave absolute proof that Voldemort split his soul, but also that there were likely other, better-protected artefacts.
J. K. Rowling revealed on Pottermore that Quirinus Quirrell served as a temporary Horcrux when Voldemort's soul possessed his body during Harry's first year at Hogwarts. A notable difference, however, is that the piece of soul within Quirrell was able to exist without its container, as it abandoned Quirrell and left him to die in the underground chambers.

Tom Riddle's diary
Tom Riddle (later known as Lord Voldemort) created his first Horcrux during his fifth year at Hogwarts, using his own school diary. In order to cast the spell, he murdered his fellow student Myrtle Warren. In Chamber of Secrets, Ginny Weasley becomes possessed by the fragment of Riddle's soul that is encased in the diary, which compels her to open the Chamber of Secrets. At the end of the novel, Harry saves Ginny and destroys the diary by stabbing it with a Basilisk fang.

Marvolo Gaunt's ring
Within the narrative, Voldemort created his second Horcrux using a ring owned by his grandfather, Marvolo Gaunt. He murdered his father to make this Horcrux, which is later destroyed by Albus Dumbledore, using the sword of Gryffindor. The ring contains the Resurrection Stone, one of the three Deathly Hallows.

Slytherin's locket
Voldemort created his third Horcrux using a locket that once belonged to his ancestor Salazar Slytherin. The locket had the ability to instruct his heirs where the Chamber of Secrets was located, how to open it, and how to control the basilisk inside. Voldemort murdered a Muggle to make the Horcrux. Albus Dumbledore and Harry obtain the locket in Half-Blood Prince, only to discover that it is fake. Later, Harry and his friends infiltrate the Ministry of Magic and steal the real locket from Dolores Umbridge. Ron then destroys it with the Sword of Gryffindor.

Hufflepuff's cup
Voldemort created his fourth Horcrux using a cup that once belonged to Helga Hufflepuff. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Harry and his friends break into Gringotts Wizarding Bank and steal the cup from the vault of Bellatrix Lestrange. Hermione Granger later destroys the cup in the Chamber of Secrets with a Basilisk fang also from the Chamber of Secrets.

Ravenclaw's diadem

Rowena Ravenclaw's daughter, Helena, stole her mother's diadem in an attempt to become more intelligent than her. Helena hid the diadem in Albania, where it was eventually found by Voldemort. The Dark Lord turned the diadem into his fifth Horcrux by murdering a peasant, and later sequestered it in the Room of Requirement in Hogwarts. In the novel Deathly Hallows, the diadem is destroyed by a Fiendfyre spell cast by Vincent Crabbe. In the film adaptation, Harry stabs the diadem with a Basilisk fang before Ron Weasley kicks it into the Fiendfyre.

Harry Potter

When Voldemort attempted to murder Harry as an infant, he inadvertently sealed a fragment of his soul within him in a manner similar to a Horcrux. Rowling has stated that Harry never became a proper "Dark object" since the Horcrux spell was not cast. Regardless, as with all Horcruxes, Voldemort would remain immortal so long as his soul fragment remained within Harry. That portion of Voldemort's soul is unintentionally destroyed by Voldemort himself when Harry allows Voldemort to use the killing curse upon him near the end of Deathly Hallows.
As a baby, Harry was in the room when Voldemort's fatal Killing Curse backfired. Voldemort's soul had been weakened and destabilised by his continuous murders and the creation of his previous Horcruxes. Harry became a Horcrux when a fragment of Voldemort's soul attached itself to him after the unsuccessful curse. The lightning bolt-shaped scar on Harry's forehead is a direct result of this attempted murder, and the connection that formed as a result is used to explain several important plot points. Throughout the series, Harry is able to receive insight into Voldemort's mental and emotional states, allowing the reader to eavesdrop on the series' primary antagonist. This insight is usually accompanied by pain in the scar on Harry's forehead. Through Voldemort, Harry also inherited many of Voldemort's powers and the ability to speak and understand Parseltongue. It is also revealed by Rowling in an interview that Harry's frequent pain in his scar when Voldemort is either active, nearby, or feeling strong emotions, is really the trapped bit of soul yearning to depart from Harry's body and rejoin its master's soul.
The Killing Curse used by Voldemort on Harry in the Forbidden Forest destroys the fragment of Voldemort's soul within Harry, but only sends Harry's soul into a near-death state. Harry could return to his body despite being hit by the Killing Curse from the Elder Wand because Voldemort had used Harry's blood to regain his full strength in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, and because the actual master of the Elder Wand, Draco Malfoy, had been defeated by Harry, making Harry the new master of the Elder Wand. Harry's ownership of the wand used for the curse and the Horcrux-like connection between Voldemort and Harry diminished Voldemort's curse and protected Harry from irreversible death.
While Voldemort did learn of Harry's telepathic connection, Voldemort was never aware that Harry was inadvertently carrying a fragment of his soul. With this destroyed, the connections between the two were also broken, and Harry never again felt pain in his scar. Rowling revealed Harry has also lost the ability to speak Parseltongue, though he regained the ability to understand it in Harry Potter and the Cursed Child after his scar began to hurt again following the rise of Voldemort and Bellatrix's daughter Delphi whom Harry, his son Albus, and his allies defeated and sent to Azkaban. In the epilogue of the last film, the scar has faded to an ordinary-looking scar on Harry's forehead.

Nagini

It is revealed in the story that the sixth Horcrux is Nagini, the snake Voldemort had with him constantly. This Horcrux was created while Voldemort was hiding in the forests of Albania; he used Nagini to kill, thus turning her into a Horcrux. In the last chapter of Deathly Hallows, Nagini is killed by Neville Longbottom using the sword of Godric Gryffindor. The destruction of the last remaining Horcrux made Voldemort mortal.

Legendary magical artefacts

Goblet of Fire

The Goblet of Fire is an artefact used at the beginning of every Triwizard Tournament. Each student who is of-age and wishes to compete places a piece of parchment with their name on it into the Goblet. At the designated time, the Goblet selects one champion from each of the three schools in competition.

Sword of Gryffindor
The Sword of Gryffindor is a goblin-crafted sword. It was once owned by Godric Gryffindor, and can magically present itself to any Gryffindor student who needs it. During the course of the novel series, the sword is used to kill a Basilisk and destroy three of Voldemort's Horcruxes.

Philosopher's Stone

Based upon the ancient alchemical idea of the philosopher's stone, the stone is owned by Nicolas Flamel and first mentioned in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. The stone is legendary in that it changes all metals to gold, and can be used to brew a potion called the Elixir of Life, making the drinker immortal. The Philosopher's Stone is seen only in the first and last book, although it is referenced several times throughout the series. It was destroyed at the end of the first book by Dumbledore with Flamel's agreement.
In the American version, this stone is called the Sorcerer's Stone.

Sorting Hat

The Sorting Hat is an artefact used to sort Hogwarts students into houses. At the beginning of each school year, the Hat is placed on each first-year student's head. The Hat announces whether the student will be assigned to Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw or Slytherin. In the Harry Potter films, the Sorting Hat is voiced by Leslie Phillips.

Mirrors

The Mirror of Erised

The Mirror of Erised is a mystical mirror discovered by Harry in an abandoned classroom in Philosopher's Stone. On it is inscribed "erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi". When mirrored and correctly spaced, this reads "I show not your face but your heart's desire". As "erised" reversed is "desire", it is the "Mirror of Desire". Harry, upon encountering the Mirror, can see his parents, as well as what appears to be a crowd of relatives. The last thing Harry saw in the mirror was Voldemort defeated.
Dumbledore cautions Harry that the Mirror gives neither knowledge nor truth, merely showing the viewer's deepest desire, and that men have wasted their lives away before it, entranced by what they see.
The Mirror of Erised was the final protection given to the Philosopher's Stone in the first book. Dumbledore hid the Mirror and hid the Stone inside it, knowing that only a person who wanted to find but not use the Stone would be able to obtain it. Anyone else would see themselves making an Elixir of Life or turning things to gold, rather than actually finding the Stone, and would be unable to obtain it. What happens to the mirror afterwards is unknown.

Two-way mirrors
In Order of the Phoenix, Sirius gives Harry a mirror he originally used to communicate with James while they were in separate detentions. That mirror is a part of a set of two-way mirrors that are activated by holding one of them and saying the name of the other possessor, causing his or her face to appear on the caller's mirror and vice versa. Harry receives this mirror from Sirius in a package after spending his Christmas holiday at Grimmauld Place. Harry, at first, chooses not to open the package, although he does discover the mirror after Sirius's death, by which point it is no longer functional. It makes its second appearance in Deathly Hallows when Mundungus Fletcher loots Grimmauld Place and sells Sirius's mirror to Aberforth Dumbledore, who uses it to watch out for Harry in Deathly Hallows. When Harry desperately cries for help to a shard of the magical mirror (which broke in the bottom of his trunk), a brilliant blue eye belonging to Aberforth (which Harry mistakes for Albus's eye), appears and he sends Dobby, who arrives to help Harry escape from Malfoy Manor to Shell Cottage.

Prank objects

Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes
According to the plot of the novels, Prank objects from Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes are made and designed by the owners of the shop, Fred and George, who test their new creations on themselves and other Hogwarts students.

Patented Daydream Charms are kits that put the user into a "highly realistic 30-minute daydream".
A Headless Hat creates a limited field of invisibility that covers the wearer's head, giving them the appearance of not having a head. Its counterpart is a Shield Hat, which deflects minor hexes and curses.
Trick Wands are magical fake wands that turn into a silly item (rubber chickens, tin parrots, etc.) when someone tries to use them.
Extendable Ears are long flesh-coloured strings, one end of which is inserted into a user's ear and the other end placed further away towards a conversation or sound. Much like a listening device, the user will be able to hear the sounds as if they were much closer to the source.
Portable Swamps are, as the name suggests, realistic pop-up swamps. They are first seen in Order of the Phoenix after Umbridge is named Headmistress. Fred and George set one off in a corridor, in part to distract Umbridge so Harry can use her fireplace. Umbridge is unable to remove the swamp and forces Filch to punt students across; Professor Flitwick vanishes it almost instantly later in the novel.
Decoy Detonators are described as black horn type objects that will run out of sight, and make a noise giving the user a good distraction.
There are also prank items which the Weasleys import from elsewhere, such as:

Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder, which throws an area into darkness that cannot be penetrated by wand light or any magical means, although the effect wears off in a few minutes.

Other prank objects
Other prank objects include Belch Powder, Dungbombs (which explode and cause a large and extremely smelly mess), and Ever-Bashing Boomerangs (which hit their target repeatedly after being thrown). Fanged Frisbees are quite literally normal Frisbees with fangs and are first mentioned in Goblet of Fire as one of Filch's newest restricted items during Dumbledore's start-of-term speech.

Storage receptacles

Moody's Magical Trunk

Alastor Moody is depicted as owning a strangely bewitched magical trunk. It has seven locks on it, and the trunk opens to a different assortment of objects for each lock. Most notably, though, the seventh compartment is about 10 feet (3 m) deep (possibly because of the use of an Undetectable Extension Charm), and is where Barty Crouch Jr. imprisoned the real Moody. Other compartments contain spellbooks, Dark Detectors, and Moody's invisibility cloak.

Pensieve

According to Rowling, the Pensieve is a stone basin used to review memories. Covered in mystic runes, it contains memories whose physical form is neither gas nor liquid. A witch or wizard can extract their own or another's memories, store them in the Pensieve, and review them later. It also relieves the mind when it becomes cluttered with information. Anyone can examine the memories in the Pensieve, which also allows viewers to fully immerse themselves in the memories stored within, much like a magical form of virtual reality.
Users of these devices view the memories from a third-person-point-of-view, providing a near-omniscient perspective of the events preserved. J. K. Rowling confirmed memories in the Pensieve allow one to view details of things that happened even if they did not notice or remember themselves, and stated "that's the magic of the Pensieve, what brings it alive". The memories contained in the Pensieve have the appearance of silver threads. Memories that have deteriorated due to age, or that were heavily manipulated or tampered with to alter perspectives (such as Slughorn's), may appear thick and jelly-like and offer obscured viewing. Memories are not limited to just those of humans, since Hokey the house-elf provided Dumbledore with a memory as well. It makes its last appearance in Deathly Hallows when Harry uses it to uncover the truth about Snape.
In the fourth film, the Pensieve in Dumbledore's office conforms to the description given in the novel. However, in the sixth and eighth films, it appears as a shallow metal dish, floating in midair and filled with a mercury-like liquid. During the eighth film, Harry removes it from the stone basin so he can use it to examine Snape's memories.

Transportation

Arthur Weasley's Flying Ford Anglia

The book describes Arthur Weasley as the owner of a 1960 Ford Anglia 105E, which he subsequently enchanted; consequently, the vehicle can fly, become invisible, and carry the entire Weasley family in spite of its formerly non-enchanted interior dimensions (also the Undetectable Extension Charm), among other abilities. The enchantment placed on the car also made it semi-sentient.
The 1962 Ford Anglia used in the film was acquired by Rupert Grint, who plays Ron Weasley, and is currently displayed in the National Motor Museum, Beaulieu. A total of 14 Ford Anglias were destroyed during the filming of the scene where the car crashes into the Whomping Willow.
A replica of the car in its feral state could be seen in the queue line for the now-defunct Dragon Challenge roller coaster at the Universal Studios Islands of Adventure theme park. Occasionally it blinked its headlights and honked its horn when its motion detectors sensed that guests were standing in front of it or walking by it. The replica has been integrated into Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure and can be seen sitting atop a large rock formation with its windshield wipers and headlights running while under the control of Cornish Pixies. It can also be heard blaring its horn as riders pass beneath the arch. The car appears in the Hogwarts Express attraction where it can be seen flying alongside the train before crashing in the Forbidden Forest.

Broomsticks

Broomsticks are used for transportation by witches and wizards of all ages, and for participating in the game of Quidditch in the Harry Potter universe. Their use is similar to that of flying carpets, although the latter are banned in Great Britain by the Ministry of Magic. However, they are uncomfortable for extended trips, even with a cushion charm applied, and thus many wizards favour other means of transport for those journeys.
Broomsticks are treated as a major consumer product in the wizarding world. There are numerous manufacturers and models of brooms, including Cleansweeps and Comets, all of which vary in their capabilities. These range from expensive high-performance models to toy broomsticks for young children that fly only a few feet off the ground to family-sized broomsticks that seat multiple people and include a luggage compartment below the seating area.
Since Harry plays Quidditch, his broomsticks - a Nimbus 2000 and later a Firebolt - are prominent in the series. The Nimbus 2000 was given to him by special consent of Dumbledore via Minerva McGonagall, who had chosen him as the Gryffindor Seeker. The Firebolt was given to him by his godfather Sirius Black as a Christmas gift after his Nimbus was destroyed by the Whomping Willow tree during a Quidditch match. The Firebolt remains the fastest broom in the world, having surpassed the previous record holder, the Nimbus 2001 (which Draco Malfoy owns and which his father Lucius Malfoy had given as gifts to the entire Slytherin team as a bribe to have Draco as their Seeker). The price of the Firebolt is so high it is only available upon request.

Floo Powder

In the Sorcerer's Stone, Floo Powder is a glittering powder used by wizards to travel between fireplaces that are connected to the Floo Network. The traveler throws a handful of Floo powder into the flames, then steps into the fireplace and states their intended destination. Floo powder can also be used for communication; a wizard can kneel in front of the fireplace and stick their head into the fire, which will then appear in the fire of the destination fireplace, leaving the witch or wizard free to talk. It is also known that other body parts may be transported via Floo Powder, as Umbridge almost catches Sirius the second time he converses with Harry through the Floo network. Voices can also be transmitted through the Floo Network, as seen in the Prisoner of Azkaban by Snape, who summons Lupin through his office's fireplace while interrogating Harry about the Marauder's Map.
The Floo Network is controlled by the Ministry of Magic. The Ministry also has over 700 fireplaces in its headquarters so that officials and workers can go directly to/from work without the hustle and bustle of travelling on brooms or by Portkey - or the indignity of having to flush themselves in through a public toilet, as portrayed in Deathly Hallows.
According to Pottermore, the only licensed producer of Floo Powder in Britain is Floo-Pow, a company whose Headquarters is located in Diagon Alley. No shortage of Floo Powder has ever been reported, nor does anybody know anyone who makes it. Its price has remained constant for one hundred years: two Sickles a scoop.

Hogwarts Express

The Hogwarts Express is described as a steam train which transports Hogwarts students to and from the school. It is stationed in Hogsmeade when not in use, and can be accessed only by using the magical barrier between platforms 9 and 10 at King's Cross train station (known as " Platform 9¾") in London.

Knight Bus

The Knight Bus is an enchanted bus that transports wizards. It makes its first appearance in Prisoner of Azkaban when Harry unintentionally summons it. The Knight Bus is faster than travelling by broomstick, but not as fast as near-instantaneous Floo Powder and apparating.
The bus functions as a convenient form of public transportation for wizards and witches who either prefer to use it or are unable to travel by other means. It bolts through the streets entirely invisible to Muggles and causes other objects to dodge it (instead of the other way around) for short distance-travel. For longer distances, the Knight Bus instantly leaps 100 miles (160 km) at a time, accompanied by a great bang and jolt.
The conductor of the Knight Bus is Stan Shunpike, and its driver is Ernie Prang. In the third film, Ernie is accompanied by a talking shrunken head voiced by Lenny Henry.
The actual Knight Bus seen in the film adaptation was built by grafting the top deck of a London AEC Regent III RT bus onto the top of another "RT" bus. Both buses were originally built for London Transport. A replica of the Knight Bus sits in front of the London facade at The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Studios Florida, serving as a stage for a small audience-interactive show with a Stan Shunpike look-alike and a shrunken head.

Portkeys
Portkeys are first introduced in Goblet of Fire. They are an alternative to Apparation but can also be used to transport a group of people at once. Created by using the Portus spell, a Portkey can be set to transport anybody who touches it to a designated location or to become active at a predetermined time and transport itself and anyone touching it to its set destination. It may be created for one-way, one-time use or to transport the holder to and from a particular place in a round trip; in addition, it may be set to activate at a particular time or automatically transport the first person who touches it. The creation of Portkeys is highly restricted and controlled by the Ministry.
Any object can be used as a Portkey. As a safety measure to discourage unsuspecting Muggles from picking them up and activating them, wizards are advised to use old, worthless items. Portkey objects used in the novels include a football and an old boot.

Rubeus Hagrid's Enchanted Motorbike

In the story, Sirius Black is described as having owned a flying motorbike, which he lent to Hagrid the night Harry's parents died. It is first seen when Hagrid delivers the baby Harry to Number 4, Privet Drive in the first book, and then again when Hagrid uses it to transport Harry to a safe house in the seventh volume. In Deathly Hallows, various modifications have been made to the bike by Mr. Weasley, allowing it to create a brick wall or a net that erupts from the exhaust pipe and to shoot dragon fire from the exhaust, impelling the bike's sudden acceleration. The dragon-fire feature is used to great effect by Hagrid and Harry when being chased by Voldemort; however, Mr. Weasley did warn that he was unsure of its safety and that they should use it only in an emergency. He was right to say this, as the sidecar of the motorbike, unaffected by Hagrid's magic, dislodged after the abrupt acceleration.

Time-Turner
A Time-Turner may be used for short-term time travel. Hermione receives a Time-Turner from McGonagall in Prisoner of Azkaban, enabling her to attend more than one class simultaneously. Hermione is ordered to keep it a secret from everyone, including Harry and Ron, although they notice the suspicious impossibility of her schedule and several bizarre disappearances and reappearances. Hermione reveals the secret to Harry and Ron near the end of the book, when she and Harry use the Time-Turner to save Sirius Black and Buckbeak. Strained by her heavy course load, she returns the device to McGonagall at the end of the novel. Hermione's Time-Turner resembles a gold hourglass pendant on a necklace.
Time-Turners are a significant point device in Cursed Child, where it is revealed that a principle known as Croaker's Law restricts all legal Time-Turners to travelling a maximum of five hours into the past. It is widely rumoured that Draco Malfoy's son Scorpius is the son of Lord Voldemort and that Scorpius's mother used a Time-Turner to make this possible. An illegal Time-Turner capable of travelling back years is confiscated from a Dark wizard by the Ministry of Magic (although official word remains that all Time-Turners are destroyed) and is later stolen by Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy, who intend to travel back in time to prevent the death of Cedric Diggory. Unfortunately, they quickly discover the Time-Turner is a cheaply made prototype that only takes them back for five minutes before forcibly returning them to the present. After accidentally creating (and then undoing) an alternate reality where Voldemort survived and took over the world, Albus and Scorpius resolve to destroy the Time-Turner, but are forced into another time trip by the story's villain and are left trapped in the past when the Time-Turner is destroyed. Back in the present, Draco reveals he possesses a professionally made Time-Turner (bound by neither Croaker's Law nor the five-minute flaw) - he never admitted its existence for fear it would lend credence to the rumours surrounding his son and never used it (despite being tempted by the possibility of seeing his dead wife alive again). When Albus and Scorpius are able to send a message to their parents, Draco's Time-Turner is used to rescue the boys.

Vanishing Cabinet
Two Vanishing Cabinets play a role in the novels, separately stored at Borgin and Burkes and in the Room of Requirement at Hogwarts. When they are in good working order and used properly, a person who steps into either cabinet will instantly emerge from the other.
The Vanishing Cabinet is first seen in Chamber of Secrets when Harry hides in it to elude the Malfoys after accidentally travelling to Borgin and Burkes via the Floo Network; its transportation features are not activated as he does not shut its door completely. Its Hogwarts counterpart is also mentioned in Chamber of Secrets when Nearly Headless Nick persuades Peeves the Poltergeist to drop it (thus breaking it) over Filch's office in order to help Harry escape detention for tracking in mud. It is also used in Order of the Phoenix by Fred and George Weasley when they force Montague, the Slytherin Quidditch captain and a member of Dolores Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad, into it after he tries to take house points from Gryffindor. Montague is found several days later, jammed in a toilet and badly disoriented. In Half-Blood Prince, Draco Malfoy learns of his experience, determines that the cabinet is linked to the one still at Borgin & Burkes, and repairs it to allow Death Eaters access to Hogwarts.
Though this set is the only one mentioned in the book series, the film version of Half-Blood Prince reveals that they were popular when Voldemort first came to power, as they would allow people to make a quick getaway from Voldemort and his Death Eaters in an emergency.

Writing equipment

Anti-Cheating Quill
The Anti-Cheating Quill, a quill with an anti-cheating charm on it, is first mentioned in Philosopher's Stone. In book five they are assigned to every O.W.L. student to prevent them from cheating on their written exams. It is made by George and Fred Weasley.

Auto-Answer Quill
In the novel, the Auto-Answer Quill is a quill that has been bewitched so that when the quill touches a question on a piece of parchment it writes the answer instantly. The quill is banned from the O.W.L. Examinations and the inks are checked out every time the test is on.

Blood Quill
The Blood Quill is a torture quill used by Umbridge throughout the Order of the Phoenix to punish students whom she has given detention. It is described as having an unusually sharp black nib. As the user writes, the quill magically and very painfully cuts into the back of the user's hand and uses his or her blood for ink. In the fifth book, Harry has detention with Umbridge on several occasions; he is required to write lines (I must not tell lies) and is not released from this until Umbridge believes "the message has sunk in". When carried out repeatedly over an extended period, this leads to permanent scarring, as Harry shows Scrimgeour in the last two books. The scars tingle whenever Harry hears Umbridge's name, but it is not clear whether this is psychological or akin to Harry's forehead scar hurting whenever Voldemort is active. Another victim of this form of detention is Lee Jordan; in the film adaptation of the book, members of Dumbledore's Army are forced to use these quills as well. Blood quills are considered illegal to own.

The Quill of Acceptance
According to Pottermore, the Quill of Acceptance is a magical object which detects the birth of a child with magical capabilities. It is located in Hogwarts School, where it records the children's names in a large book. Professor McGonagall consults the book and sends out the subsequent Hogwarts acceptance letters by owl once the child turns eleven. It has been made very popular due to its use in registering users for the closed beta of Pottermore.

Quick Quotes Quill
A Quick Quotes Quill is described as a stenographic tool, acid green in colour, employed by Rita Skeeter to spin the words of her subjects into a more salacious or melodramatic form. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Skeeter uses the quill to interview Harry about his participation in the Triwizard Tournament for her column in The Daily Prophet. Harry continually tries to alert her to the inaccuracy of the quill; however, she continually ignores him. Additionally, in Deathly Hallows, Rita mentions in her Daily Prophet interview concerning her posthumous biography of Dumbledore that her Quick Quotes Quill helped her to write the book so quickly after his death.

Spell-Checking Quill
In the story, the Spell-Checking Quill temporarily corrects spelling as the user writes; however, once the charm wears off it constantly misspells words, even if the user writes them correctly. The most notable example is its misspelling of Ron's name as "Roonil Wazlib" in Half-Blood Prince. It is sold through Weasley's Wizard Wheezes, the joke shop opened by Fred and George Weasley.

Other objects

Deluminator
A Deluminator is a device invented by Albus Dumbledore that can remove light from any light source. It can also return the removed light to its source. The Deluminator first appears in Philosopher's Stone when Dumbledore uses it to darken Privet Drive. In Deathly Hallows, it is bequeathed to Ron Weasley in Dumbledore's will. Later in the novel, the Deluminator serves a different function by helping Ron locate Harry and Hermione after he is separated from them. The device emits a ball of light that enters Ron's body and shows him the location of his friends.

Fake Galleon
In the novel Order of the Phoenix, the character Hermione Granger creates fake, enchanted Galleon coins that are used for communication between members of the student organisation Dumbledore's Army. The coins have numerals around the edge which display the time and date of the group's next meeting.

Howler
In the Harry Potter novels and films, a Howler is a letter sent to express extreme anger or to convey a message very loudly and publicly. When the Howler is opened, the sender's voice bellows the message at a deafening volume. The letter then self-destructs by burning.

Omnioculars
Omnioculars are presented as magical brass binoculars. Omnioculars, besides having the magnification capabilities of binoculars, have many other useful features. For example, they have the ability to slow down or replay something seen through the lenses, at the expense of the live view. They also have a play-by-play feature, where the names of moves performed by Quidditch players are shown in bright purple letters across the Omnioculars' lenses. Omnioculars also have the ability to list the names and numbers of the players, and can zero in on players rapidly.

Spellotape
Spellotape serves as magical adhesive tape. It is named after Sellotape, a popular brand which has become a generic name for transparent adhesive tape in the United Kingdom.

Wand

In the Harry Potter universe, a wand is a wooden rod used to perform spells. It is crafted by a wandmaker, who inserts a "core" into the wandwood. Common cores include phoenix tail feathers, unicorn tail hairs, and dragon heartstrings. The only wand shop depicted in the novels is Ollivanders, which is run by the wandmaker Garrick Ollivander. The Russian wandmaker Mykew Gregorovitch is mentioned several times in the novels—while Viktor Krum acknowledges Ollivander's skill, he claims that Gregorovitch's wands are the best.
In the United States, wand cores are created from the horn of river serpents, Wampus hair, Snallygaster heartstring, and Jackalope antlers, a practice originated in the 17th century by the first American wandmaker, Isolt Sayre, an Irish immigrant who founded the Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in Massachusetts.
A wand is generally considered a very personal object. Wands belonging to other wizards can be borrowed, resulting in a comparatively less potent effect. In Philosopher's Stone, Harry had to try out many wands before he found one that "chose him". Wands with cores from the same source give strange effects (Priori Incantatem) when forced to fight each other, as is the case with Harry and Voldemort's wands. In Goblet of Fire, it is revealed each of their wands contains a tail feather from Fawkes, the phoenix belonging to Dumbledore. After Priori Incantatem, the wands get to know the opposites' master, as explained in Deathly Hallows. While, according to Ollivander, any object can channel magic if the wizard is strong enough, wands are the most commonly used because of their efficiency (due to the owner's bond with the wand itself). This can explain how some wizards are able to use spells without wands (for example, retrieving an item with Accio).
Furthermore, wands are able to be won from a witch or wizard and can therefore change their allegiance. For example, when Harry takes Draco's wand at Malfoy Manor, the wand's allegiance switches to Harry, and, by extension, so does the allegiance of the Elder Wand, which has changed hands many times. Not all wands change their allegiance—when discussing Bellatrix Lestrange's wand, Ollivander describes it as "unyeilding" and Hermione finds using it "distasteful" and difficult.  Should a student be expelled from Hogwarts, their wand is confiscated and snapped in half. This type of damage is usually irreparable, although at the end of The Deathly Hallows Harry uses the Elder Wand to successfully repair his original broken wand.


================================================================================

# MinaLima

MinaLima is a graphic design studio based in Soho, London, known for its prop design on the Harry Potter films and its interactive book illustrations.

History

Miraphora Mina and Eduardo Lima co-founded MinaLima in 2009. They worked on all Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts films, which were released between 2001 and 2022. Following their work on the Potter films, MinaLima published illustrated pop-up books of fairy tales and the first three Potter novels.
MinaLima has also worked on graphic props for Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street, The Golden Compass, The Fault in Our Stars, and The Imitation Game. In 2020, MinaLima partnered with Ruth E. Carter for a touring costume exhibition. The studio was commissioned to design the branding for California's National Animation Museum in 2024.

Work on Harry Potter
MinaLima designed most of the props for the Harry Potter films, such as the Marauder's Map, the Lestrange family tree, The Daily Prophet, issues of The Quibbler, and Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes products. The studio also designed all graphic elements for The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Orlando's three theme parks, Islands of Adventure, Universal Studios Florida and Epic Universe.
In 2022, MinaLima published a book detailing their work on the Harry Potter franchise, called The Magic Of MinaLima: Celebrating The Graphic Design Studio Behind The Harry Potter & Fantastic Beasts Films.
In 2025, MinaLima designed artwork for the collector's edition of the Harry Potter pinball machine.

House of MinaLima
MinaLima headquarters are located in Soho, which started as a pop-up in 2017. The studio is called House of MinaLima, which is part gallery and part store. It features authentic movie props, including Hogwarts acceptance letters. Since then, MinaLima opened additional locations in Tokyo, Japan, New York City, South Korea, and Edinburgh. Their products are also present at Universal theme parks, as well as the Harry Potter Shop in New York, Chicago and London, and at the Warner Bros. Studio Tour – The Making of Harry Potter in London and Tokyo.

Publications

Harry Potter
Rowling, J.K. (20 October 2020). Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (MinaLima Edition) (Book #1). Scholastic, Inc. p. 368. ISBN 9781338596700.
Rowling, J.K. (26 October 2021). Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (MinaLima Edition) (Book #2). Scholastic, Inc. p. 400. ISBN 9781338716535.
Rowling, J.K. (3 October 2023). Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (MinaLima Edition) (Book #3). Scholastic, Inc. p. 480. ISBN 9781338815283.
MinaLima; Denton, Nell (1 November 2022). The Magic of MinaLima. HarperCollins. p. 224. ISBN 9780063087774.

Classics
Barrie, J.M. (2 June 2015). Peter Pan (MinaLima Edition) (lllustrated with Interactive Elements). Harper Collins. p. 256. ISBN 9780062362223.
Kipling, Rudyard (1 March 2016). The Jungle Book (MinaLima Edition) (Illustrated with Interactive Elements). Harper Collins. p. 256. ISBN 9780062389503.
Barbot de Villenueve, Gabrielle-Suzanna (31 January 2017). Beauty and the Beast, The (MinaLima Edition). Harper Collins. p. 208. ISBN 9780062456212.
Hodgson Burnett, Frances (3 July 2018). The Secret Garden (MinaLima Edition) (Illustrated with Interactive Elements). Harper Collins. p. 384. ISBN 9780062692573.
Carrol, Lewis (29 October 2019). Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (MinaLima Edition). p. 320. ISBN 9780062936615.
Collodi, Carlo (14 April 2020). The Adventures of Pinocchio (MinaLima Edition). Harper Collins. p. 288. ISBN 9780062905277.
Baum, L. Frank (14 September 2021). The Wonderful Wizard of Oz Interactive (MinaLima Edition). p. 256. ISBN 9780063055735.
Grimm, Jacob; Grimm, Wilhelm (8 November 2022). Snow White and Other Grimms' Fairy Tales (MinaLima Edition). p. 224.
Shelley, Mary (28 October 2025). Frankenstein (MinaLima Edition). Harper Collins. p. 416. ISBN 9780063452060.
de Saint-Exupéry, Antoine (7 April 2026). The Little Prince (MinaLima Edition). Harper Collins. p. 192. ISBN 9780063497009.
Stevenson, Robert Louis (1 September 2026). Treasure Island (MinaLima Edition). Harper Collins. p. 384. ISBN 9780063452084.


================================================================================

# Minerva McGonagall

Minerva McGonagall is a character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. McGonagall is a professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where she is also the head of Gryffindor House and the deputy headmistress under Albus Dumbledore.  McGonagall was portrayed by  Maggie Smith in the Harry Potter films and then by Fiona Glascott in the Fantastic Beasts prequel films The Crimes of Grindelwald and The Secrets of Dumbledore.

Appearances

Novels
McGonagall is introduced at the beginning of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) when she accompanies Albus Dumbledore as he delivers the infant Harry Potter to the Dursley residence. When Harry arrives at Hogwarts a decade later, he meets McGonagall, who is the Transfiguration professor and the head of Gryffindor House. After noticing Harry's broomstick flying skills, McGonagall introduces him to the Gryffindor Quidditch team captain Oliver Wood. Once Harry qualifies for the Quidditch team, McGonagall buys him a Nimbus 2000 broomstick.
In Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998), McGonagall becomes acting headmistress after Dumbledore is suspended by the Ministry of Magic. When she discovers that Ginny Weasley has been taken into the Chamber of Secrets, she orders Professor Gilderoy Lockhart to rescue her. After Lockhart proves incompetent, Ginny is saved by Harry and Ron Weasley.
At the beginning of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999), McGonagall gives Hermione Granger a Time-Turner to allow her to take multiple classes at the same time. After Harry's Nimbus 2000 is destroyed, he is sent a Firebolt, but McGonagall confiscates it. She suspects it is cursed, but eventually finds it to be safe.
In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), McGonagall is concerned for Harry's safety when he is mysteriously selected for the Triwizard Tournament. After the death of Cedric Diggory, she joins Albus Dumbledore and Severus Snape in rescuing Harry from the Death Eater Barty Crouch Jr.
McGonagall joins the secret organisation Order of the Phoenix in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003). After the Ministry-appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Dolores Umbridge refuses to teach students practical defensive magic, McGonagall supports Harry, Ron and Hermione as they form the self-defence group Dumbledore's Army. While attempting to protect Rubeus Hagrid from Umbridge, McGonagall is assaulted by Aurors and sent to St Mungo's Hospital. She eventually recovers and returns to Hogwarts before the end of the school year.
In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005), McGonagall duels with the Death Eater Alecto Carrow during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. McGonagall is appointed headmistress after Dumbledore's death, but is replaced by Snape when Voldemort takes control of Hogwarts in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007). She continues to teach, and is present when Harry, Ron and Hermione return to Hogwarts searching for Ravenclaw's diadem. Soon after, McGonagall banishes Snape from Hogwarts. She prepares the school's defences prior to Voldemort's assault, and helps evacuate the younger students to Hogsmeade. During the Battle of Hogwarts, McGonagall duels with Voldemort alongside Horace Slughorn and Kingsley Shacklebolt.

Film adaptations
McGonagall is portrayed by Maggie Smith in seven of the eight Harry Potter films; the only instalment in which she does not appear being Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 (2011). Reportedly, she was the only actor whose involvement J.K. Rowling had specifically requested. Despite receiving praise from Rowling for her performance, Smith said that acting in the films was not fully satisfying. However, she said she enjoyed being a part of the franchise because it allowed her to bond with her grandchildren. Smith underwent intensive chemotherapy for breast cancer while filming the sixth film of the series. The treatment left her feeling "horribly sick", but she eventually made a full recovery.

Fantastic Beasts
McGonagall appears as a Hogwarts professor in the prequel films Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018) and Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore (2022). Several websites have pointed out that according to timeline details provided in Order of the Phoenix, McGonagall would not have been teaching at Hogwarts during the events of these films. Her inclusion in the series consequently upset some fans. McGonagall is portrayed by Fiona Glascott in the films.

Television adaptation
McGonagall is set to be portrayed by Janet McTeer in the upcoming HBO television series Harry Potter.

Stage adaptation
The 2016 stage play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is set nineteen years after Voldemort's death. In the play, McGonagall is the headmistress of Hogwarts.

Characterisation
McGonagall is a formidable woman who is skilled in many forms of magic, notably Transfiguration. She is able to perform certain spells without the use of a wand. She is a registered Animagus, which allows her to transform into a domestic cat at will. McGonagall is held in high regard by her peers and the students of Hogwarts. She is known for her sternness and dry sense of humour and speaks with a Scottish accent. Minerva McGonagall shares some traits with the Roman goddess Minerva (known as Athena in Greek mythology).

Reception
The entertainment website IGN wrote that McGonagall is usually "a strict disciplinarian" but can also be a "cool aunt" who occasionally allows mischief.
Smith received acclaim for her performance in the films. Smith's role in the films is credited with introducing her to a younger generation, many of whom had not heard of Smith before prior to Harry Potter despite being a seasoned veteran.


================================================================================

# Neville Longbottom

Neville Longbottom is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. He is described as a round-faced Gryffindor student in Harry Potter's year. Throughout the series, Neville is often portrayed as a bumbling and disorganised character, and a rather mediocre student, though he is highly gifted at Herbology. However, the character's personality appears to undergo a transition after he joins Dumbledore's Army in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. The encouragement he receives gives him confidence in his magical abilities, turning him into a more competent wizard. Eventually, Neville becomes the leader of Dumbledore's Army during Harry, Ron and Hermione's absence searching for Horcruxes. Neville is instrumental in the downfall of Lord Voldemort and eventually destroys the final Horcrux, which allows Harry to defeat the Dark Lord once and for all. Neville is portrayed by Matthew Lewis in the Harry Potter films. His evolution from an insecure boy into a courageous leader reflects one of the most profound character arcs in the series.

Character history

Early life and family background
Neville Longbottom was born into the respected Longbottom family, which is one of the few remaining pure-blood lines in the wizarding world. His parents, Frank and Alice Longbottom, were Aurors who fought valiantly during the First Wizarding War and were members of the original Order of the Phoenix. During Voldemort's reign, the Longbottoms were tortured into insanity by the use of one of the unforgivable curses, Cruciatus Curse, used by Death Eaters. The Death Eaters included Bellatrix Lestrange, Rodolphus Lestrange, Rabastan Lestrange, and Barty Crouch Jr. This torture had left the couple permanently hospitalized. From this event happening, Neville was raised by his grandmother, Augusta Longbottom, who had high expectations for his magical abilities. As a baby, Neville showed little to no signs of having magical abilities, which led his family to believe it was possible that he was a Squib. His early experiences with loss and self-doubt profoundly shaped his character and set the stage for his emotional journey at Hogwarts.

Hogwarts years and academic growth
Neville started his education at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry at age 11, which is also the same year Harry Potter attends. During his early years, he was known for his clumsiness, lack of confidence, and fear of failure. In his first year, he had fallen off of his broomstick during flying lessons and was known for having a fear of Professor Snape. Over his time at Hogwarts, Neville began to find his strengths and interests. One of these was Herbology, which he excelled in. Through this, Neville's confidence had grown, but a major factor in his confidence was joining Dumbledore's Army in his fifth year. Having Harry Potter as a mentor, Neville was able to develop stronger magical skills which led to increasing his courage and determination. In Neville's seventh year at Hogwarts, he had taken a leadership role within Dumbledore's Army and helped organize the resistance within Hogwarts while it was under the Death Eater's control.

Trauma and character growth
Throughout the series, Neville's development is shaped by both personal trauma and a desire to prove himself. Neville had a struggle with identity and self worth due to the external factors of the torture of his parents that led to long-term hospitalization, bullying he had endured from students and peers, and lack of self confidence. Neville had overcome these set backs with little acts of bravery throughout the series. In the beginning, he had stood up to his friends in his first year, which he was then rewarded by Dumbledore himself. These early acts of bravery were foreshadowing his character development that would come in the later books. In the final book, Neville has an act of bravery like how he fights Scabior and that results in him retrieving the Sword of Gryffindor from the Sorting Hat and kills Nagini, which was the last remaining Horcrux of Voldemort. His story is represented by the underdog arc, evolving from an insecure boy into a decisive hero.

Post-Hogwarts life
After the Second Wizarding War, Neville went on to become the Herbology professor at Hogwarts. He remained closely tied to the school and the wizarding world, becoming a respected figure in both education and magical history. In later years, he married Hannah Abbott, a fellow Hogwarts alumna. Neville's career and personal life reflect the quiet resilience that defined much of his journey throughout the series.

Personality and traits
Neville is frequently portrayed as timid and forgetful in the earlier books, often drawing unkind comparisons to more confident peers. Despite this, he consistently demonstrates loyalty and courage, particularly when defending friends or standing up for what is right. His affinity for Herbology reveals a deep appreciation for care, patience, and growth, mirroring his own journey throughout the series.

Character development
Although a secondary character in the first four books, Neville appears often in the role of comic relief. He is one of Harry's strongest supporters over the course of the series, and becomes close friends with Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Luna as well. Neville plays a significant part in the two final books and the fight against Lord Voldemort, destroying the final Horcrux, Nagini, with the Sword of Gryffindor. The Sword appearing for Neville in his time of need is Neville's confirmation that he is a true Gryffindor, as he had always doubted his placement in the house since the beginning, wondering why he was not sorted into Hufflepuff.
Rowling said in an interview that "there's a lot of Neville in me—this feeling of just never being quite good enough... I felt that a lot when I was younger". For that reason, she wanted Neville to do something brave in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, in which Neville "finds true moral courage in standing up to his closest friends—the people who are on his side" towards the climax of the novel. She also said in that interview that this was "...a very important moment for me too in the first book".

Appearances

Novels
Neville first appears in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. He befriends Harry, Ron and Hermione on the Hogwarts Express, and joins them as a member of Gryffindor House at Hogwarts. After Neville confronts his friends about their willingness to break school rules, the headmaster Albus Dumbledore awards him ten house points for his bravery. These points allow Gryffindor to win the House Cup.
In Chamber of Secrets, Neville fears that Slytherin's monster will attack him because of his poor magical abilities. In Prisoner of Azkaban, Remus Lupin helps Neville defeat a Boggart. In Goblet of Fire, Dumbledore reveals to Harry that Neville was raised by his grandmother because his parents were tortured into insanity by Death Eaters.
Neville's magical abilities improve under the tutelage of Harry in Order of the Phoenix. During the battle at the Department of Mysteries, Neville accidentally breaks the prophecy made about Harry and Voldemort. The following year, in Half-Blood Prince, Neville is invited to a meeting of the Slug Club by Horace Slughorn. In academics, Neville achieves high marks in Herbology, Defence Against the Dark Arts and Charms. When a group of Death Eaters enter Hogwarts, Neville fights them alongside his friends.
In Deathly Hallows, Neville revives the student defence group Dumbledore's Army (D.A.) and leads the resistance against Voldemort's takeover of Hogwarts. Neville is chased by some Death Eaters, led by Scabior but Neville outruns them and sends them to their deaths. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Neville and Ron defeat Fenrir Greyback. Neville also kills Voldemort's Horcrux-snake Nagini, which makes Voldermort mortal and leads to his death. In the epilogue of Deathly Hallows, which is set nineteen years later, Ginny mentions that Neville is now the Herbology professor at Hogwarts.

Film adaptations
Neville is portrayed by Matthew Lewis in the Harry Potter films. For Prisoner of Azkaban, Lewis wore overly large shoes and crooked yellow false teeth. He also had pieces of plastic placed behind his ears so they would stick out. Prior to the release of the fifth film, Lewis commented on Neville's character development that he thinks "it's amazing that the character of Neville has really shaken off his klutz image (to an extent.) It very good to see him finally being a help as opposed to making things worse, I'm looking forward to the 5th film, it will be interesting to almost play a different character." When asked if he feels related to Neville, Lewis replied that he is "clumsy and terribly forgetful" just like his character is, but that he does not have "the same nervous disposition as Neville", and that it is interesting to play somebody that, despite being picked on at school, still does the right thing.

Stage adaptation
In Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Neville's death before the Battle of Hogwarts is the point of divergence for an alternate timeline in which Voldemort killed Harry and won the wizarding war.

Characterisation
The novels describe Neville as round-faced. At one point, Rowling described him as short, plump and blond. Early in the series, Neville is shown to be shy and lacking self-confidence. He is portrayed as an incompetent wizard and a generally poor student (except in Herbology, where he excels). Neville admits in Chamber of Secrets that his family feared he was a Squib during his childhood. Prisoner of Azkaban described Neville as terrified of Professor Snape. When Neville joins Dumbledore's Army in Order of the Phoenix, his magical abilities improve. In Deathly Hallows, he becomes a leader in the organization.
Rowling revealed more information about Neville when she stated that he married Hannah Abbott, a Hufflepuff classmate, who became the landlady of the Leaky Cauldron. The couple live over the pub, a fact that Rowling thought people would find "particularly cool".
Lewis described Neville as an unexpected hero and claimed he could have fulfilled Harry's role as the "Chosen One" who battles Voldemort.


================================================================================

# Newt Scamander

Newton Artemis Fido "Newt" Scamander is a character created by J. K. Rowling. He is the protagonist of the Fantastic Beasts film series, a spin-off prequel to the Harry Potter novel and film series.
Newt Scamander was only mentioned in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone as the author of the book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, which was used as a textbook for Care of Magical Creatures by Harry Potter and his classmates. In 2001, J.K. Rowling wrote a real version of the fictional textbook under the pseudonym "Newt Scamander". In the film series inspired by the book, Newt Scamander is the main character and is portrayed by Eddie Redmayne.
Newt Scamander is an introverted British wizard and magizoologist. His help is often sought by his former professor Albus Dumbledore in the mission to defeat the dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald. Newt ends up playing a vital role in the downfall of Grindelwald, during which Newt meets and falls in love with his future wife Tina Goldstein.
Rowling as a producer, as well as scriptwriter, had a much greater involvement in the casting of Fantastic Beasts films than she did in the Harry Potter films. She quickly came to see that Redmayne met with her ideas for the character of Newt as a very British subtle and understated hero figure. Redmayne's portrayal of the character received strong critical reviews in the U.K., but reactions from critics in the U.S. were more mixed as his subtlety of character did not fit the American ideal cast of hero.

Character development
Describing Newt as an outsider, Rowling said, "My heroes are always people who feel themselves to be set apart, stigmatised or othered. That's at the heart of most of what I write, and it's certainly at the heart of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.
Newt Scamander grows up attached to the magical beasts since childhood and eventually becomes a magizoologist. He feels extremely connected to all his magical creatures and beasts, and always defends them.
Harry Potter and Newt Scamander are rather different kinds of protagonists: Harry is a born leader who makes lifelong, unbreakable friendships at Hogwarts; while Newt is an unheroic hero, (but not an antihero), a loner and always thought of himself to be alone because his only close friendship is with Leta Lestrange that ended due to "rocky circumstances". Harry is daring, reckless, and short-tempered at times; while Newt usually remains calm and cool in a crisis. However, Newt and Harry also share similar traits, as they are both brave, humble, loyal, protecting of underdogs, at odds with authority — mainly in the form of the Ministry of Magic — and fighting for what is right. Both Harry and Newt are "chosen" to fight evils: the bold Harry is chosen by his fate and guided by Dumbledore to complete his parents' fight; whereas Dumbledore sees a rather reluctant and bashful Newt just needs a little push to be convinced into just following his own innate instincts to do the right thing and fight Grindelwald.
Newt is also somewhat similar to Hermione Granger as both of them are intelligent and deductive — crusaders with "extraordinary luggage".

Character biography

Early life
Born in England on 24 February 1897, Newt Scamander developed interest towards magical beasts and creatures from a young age as his mother bred hippogriffs. Sorted into Hufflepuff at Hogwarts at the age of eleven, Newt develops a close friendship with a Slytherin girl named Leta Lestrange, who is in the same year as him and shares both his interest in magical beasts and his inferiority complex due to being an outsider. Newt and Leta explore magical creatures together and enjoy each other's company, gradually falling in love. One of Leta's experiments involving a Jarvey accidentally endangers human life. Newt takes the blame for Leta's actions and is expelled from Hogwarts instead of her. Therefore, Newt turns bitter towards Leta but still remains much in love with her. Albus Dumbledore, Newt's Transfiguration professor at that time, strongly argues on his beloved student's behalf. Newt is still expelled but is allowed to keep his wand because of Dumbledore's influence.
Around 1914 to 1918, Newt serves on the Eastern front during the First World War in a confidential Ministry of Magic program involving Ukrainian Ironbelly dragons. However, the program is cancelled as the dragons respond only to Newt, whilst trying to eat all others. Newt later joins the Ministry and receives several promotions there due to his knowledge about magical creatures, eventually becoming a magizoologist. However, Newt's career choice is not appreciated by his family. In 1918, Newt is convinced by Augustus Worme to use his extensive knowledge about magical beasts to write a book on them. Newt begins to travel internationally to conduct research on magical beasts and creatures for his book.

Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them

In 1926, Newt Scamander makes a brief stop over in New York with the motive of releasing Frank the Thunderbird into its habitat. Newt carries with him a magically expanded suitcase in which he carries several magical beasts from his voyage around the world. In a chain of chaotic events, Newt's suitcase is accidentally switched with the suitcase of Muggle (or No-maj) aspiring baker Jacob Kowalski; Jacob opens the suitcase and accidentally lets out the magical beasts. Newt teams up with Jacob, American ex-auror Porpentina "Tina" Goldstein, and Tina's Legilimens sister Queenie, to round up all the escaped creatures. Newt faces complications from MACUSA (Magical Congress of the United States of America) but nonetheless succeeds in rounding up all the escaped creatures with Jacob, Tina and Queenie's help. When Queenie learns of Newt's past through her Legillimency, she advises him to move on, describing Leta Lestrange as a "taker".
Newt encounters a destructive and emotionally disturbed obscurial teenager Credence Barebone, whom Newt attempts to comfort and consoles with the aid of Tina (who attempted to help him before). When MACUSA aurors attack Credence and blast the Obscurial to oblivion, Newt is the only one who notices that a tiny wisp of the Obscurus flees (likely to find another host). Newt exposes that MACUSA auror Percival Graves is the infamous and dangerous dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald in disguise; Grindelwald is arrested. Newt prevents the exposure of wizarding world to the No-maj community by using his thunderbird to disperse a potion which removes all the No-maj's memories about the Obscurial battle. Newt receives respect and a sincere apology from MACUSA. Newt bids Jacob an emotional farewell before the latter willingly steps into the rain of obliviating potion. Newt argues on Tina's behalf and justifies her mistake because of which she had been fired; thereafter, Tina gets back her job as an auror. A week later, Newt anonymously gifts Jacob some silver Occamy shells to help him sanction a loan and fulfill his dream of opening a bakery. Newt bids farewell to Tina and promises to deliver a copy of his book to her in person, before he boards a ship to England and leaves.

Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald

In 1927, Newt Scamander's book Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them has become a bestseller and an approved Hogwarts textbook. In the meantime, Grindelwald has escaped custody. Albus Dumbledore secretly meets Newt and asks him to track and save Credence (now known by everyone to be alive). Newt is disappointed to learn from Queenie that a crestfallen Tina is dating someone after mistakenly thinking that Newt is engaged to Leta Lestrange, whereas Leta is actually engaged to Newt's elder brother Theseus.
Learning that Tina is also searching for Credence in France, Newt goes there as well with Jacob (who has regained memories about the wizarding world). Due to an international travel ban placed on him by the Ministry, illegally Newt bribes a portkey tout on the Kent coast and arrives directly in Paris with Jacob. Both follow a wizard named Yusuf Kama, only to find Tina being held hostage by Kama. Unexpectedly, Kama collapses due to a parasitical infection and Newt's pet bowtruckle, Pickett, frees the three by picking the lock.
Newt captures a Zouwu, that had escaped earlier from a travelling circus, running rampant across the Parisian streets. Then the three take the unconscious Kama to Dumbledore's safe-house run by the alchemist Nicholas Flamel where Newt extracts the dragon worm that has infected Kama, so curing him. Tina, still put-out by Newt and his supposed engagement leaves, followed shortly after by Newt to infiltrate the French Ministry of Magic to uncover information about Credence's past. Eventually, Newt tells Tina that he is not engaged to Leta. He awkwardly tries to confess to Tina that he has fallen in love with her, but nervously blurts that she has "eyes as a fire under water" — like salamanders, they say together — at which Tina's affections are rekindled. At the Lestrange family tomb in Père Lachaise Cemetery, as Leta comes clean about a past mistake of hers to absolve Credence from Yusuf Kama unbreakable vow, Newt consoles a remorseful Leta as a good friend. Newt chooses to join the fight against Grindelwald after a destructive rally of Grindelwald's followers, during which Queenie and Credence join Grindelwald under manipulation, while Leta sacrifices her life to let her fiancé Theseus and the others escape. Flamel leads the escapees in saving Paris from a fiery destruction.
In an epilogue at Hogwarts, Newt presents Dumbledore with a magical silver vial stolen from Grindelwald by Newt's niffler, containing a blood oath pact Grindelwald and Dumbledore made in their youth that prevents them from dueling one another; Dumbledore believes it can be destroyed.

Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore

In 1932, Newt Scamander nurses a pregnant Qilin, who births twins. Grindelwald's acolytes kill the mother Qilin and capture one of the twins, whom Grindelwald slaughters to gain precognition. However, Newt saves the younger Qilin twin and keeps him safe.
Albus Dumbledore entrusts Newt to form and lead a group to thwart Grindelwald's plans of world domination. Newt forms a team consisting of his auror brother Theseus, Muggle friend Jacob Kowalski, Ilvermorny Charms professor Eulalie "Lally" Hicks, his assistant Bunty and Yusuf Kama. Newt presents Jacob with a wand as per Dumbledore's orders, much to Jacob's surprise and joy. Newt, Jacob, Lally and Theseus are all shocked when Grindelwald is acquitted of all charges and is also allowed to stand in the upcoming election as a candidate. After Theseus is stunned and abducted by Grindelwald's acolytes, Newt infiltrates German prison Erkstag and rescues his brother. At Hog's head, Dumbledore reveals to Newt that Credence Barebone is actually the illegitimate son of his younger brother Aberforth Dumbledore. Newt attempts to comfort a guilt-ridden Dumbledore but in vain. However before leaving, Newt tells Dumbledore that he has a chance to correct his mistakes.
Newt, Theseus, Jacob, Lally, Bunty and Dumbledore reach Bhutan where the election for the new supreme mugwump is held. Grindelwald manipulates the election and deceitfully wins. But with Credence's help, Newt exposes that the Qilin which chose Grindelwald was already dead, reanimated through necromancy. Newt releases the remaining alive Qilin, which chooses Vicência Santos as the new Supreme Mugwump. Enraged and defeated, Grindelwald flees, but not before his and Dumbledore's blood pact is broken in a chain of spells. Dumbledore sincerely thanks Newt for all his help; Aberforth accepts a dying Credence and takes him home. As Queenie regrets joining Grindelwald and renounces the dark side, she and Jacob marry. Newt attends the wedding as Jacob's best man. Newt is gladdened and rendered speechless to see his love-interest Tina there as well. The two reunite and attend the wedding together.

Later life
At some time after the end of the Global Wizarding War, Newt and Tina marry. Newt creates the Werewolf Register and the Ban on Experimental Breeding. Newt also works for the Dragon Research and Restraint Bureau. In 1979, he is awarded The Order of Merlin - Second Class for his services to magizoology. He appears on a Chocolate Frog Card. His grandson Rolf Scamander—a naturalist by profession—goes on to marry Luna Lovegood. Soon, Newt becomes the great-grandfather of twins Lorcan and Lysander.
As depicted in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Newt Scamander visits Hogwarts in 1993 or 1994 for some unknown reason, thus appearing on the Marauder's Map. Newt writes A Children's Anthology of Monsters, an edition for younger readers. As of 2017, Newt Scamander is still "alive and well".

Reception
The character received mixed reaction. Newt Scamander was chosen by IGN as their fifteenth favourite Harry Potter character, saying that Newt has very quickly established himself as a "very different sort of hero".
Cultural critic Jonathan McIntosh praised the character, stating that he "performs a refreshingly atypical form of masculinity." Joshua Hansen from MuggleNet liked Newt Scamander more than Harry Potter and said, "Don't get me wrong, Harry is still dear to my heart [...] But when ranking whom I prefer, the man with the lizard [sic] for a name definitely takes the cake." An editor from Looper approved of how Newt's character helped the Hufflepuff house to "step into the limelight". Reviewer from The Guardian enjoyed Newt Scamander's personality and said, "All pigeon-toed angles and stuttering rushes of enthusiasm, [Eddie Redmayne's] great gift to the character is a crippling diffidence."
Eddie Redmayne, the actor who portrayed Newt Scamander throughout the films, also received positive reception. For his role in Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them, Redmayne received the Best Actor Award from Empire Awards.
Many critics disapproved of Redmayne’s interpretation of the character. Helen O'Hara from Empire wrote, "[...] he's so disconnected and withdrawn that he barely shifts facial expression from friendly blankness for the first half hour, when we really need him to guide us around." Justin Chang of the Los Angeles Times described Newt Scamander as "charmless". Charles Bramesco of Polygon criticised how Newt Scamander has "been remanded to the margins of his own franchise".

Characterisation

Outward appearance

Newt Scamander is a tall wizard with brown hair and hazel eyes.
Newt almost always wears his single-breasted, close-fitting, peacock blue overcoat, which covers his body down to his knees. Newt's primary dressing-manner also includes his dark brown suit jacket and trousers, burnt-orange waistcoat, ivory-white shirt, small bow tie and calf high leather boots which are weather-beaten and worn from his travels across the world. The various pockets in Newt's coat contain various potions and elixirs for Newt as a magizoologist always remains prepared.
Occasionally, he is also seen wearing his woollen black-and-yellow Hufflepuff scarf.

Personality
Eddie Redmayne expressed his thoughts about Newt Scamander possibly being on the autism spectrum. Socially awkward, slightly eccentric and introverted around humans, Newt feels more comfortable around animals and connects better with them. Newt's relationships with his magical beasts sometimes takes precedence over his relationships with other human beings. However, Newt does not lack empathy towards humans as his beliefs about the power of Muggles and his remarkable friendship with Muggle Jacob Kowalski "mirrors a certain Albus Dumbledore".
Newt is not afraid to show weakness, vulnerability or emotions. He attempts to avoid violence when possible, such as when he consoles the violently disturbed obscurial Credence Barebone by his kind, understanding and sympathetic nature. Newt is praised by his former headmaster Albus Dumbledore for always doing the right thing without seeking power or glory.
Newt has a scientist's eye and the thirst for knowledge about magical creatures, with the motive of protecting them and educating others about them. Newt "bumbles" into the heart of danger, especially if a mysterious species is involved. Newt is fascinated by all sorts of magical creatures—those by which wizards and witches are deeply terrified.

Magical abilities and skills
Newt's expertise in Charms is seen as he is able to perform a highly-advanced Undetectable Extension Charm on the interior of his suitcase to expand the space within and hold innumerable magical creatures of different native habitats. He is also able to cast Atmospheric Charms to create separate natural habitats inside the suitcase for the magical beasts to survive. He is even able to create a magical bubble to contain and sustain an obscurus even after the death of its host. He could also successfully use a tracking spell, which he used to trace Tina.
Newt is particularly gifted in Herbology and Healing as he is capable of preparing medicinal remedies from magical plants and potions — such as when he swiftly creates a poultice through some fresh plants and some preprepared concoctions to control Jacob's unusually severe reaction to a Murtlap bite. Newt also looked after magical flora and was familiar with their properties, keeping several potted plants on a shelf in his shed in the magically expanded suitcase that serves as his home for his magical creatures.
Polyjuice Potion is regarded as highly difficult to make. Since Newt was successfully able to brew the potion, it suggests that he is skilled in potion-making as well.
Newt Scamander's wand is made up of rather unusual contents: The wood of the wand is of Tropical Lime Tree, while shell and bone are used as cores of the wand. Newt's boggart is an office desk at the Ministry, because what he fears most is having to work in an office. When Rowling was asked by a fan regarding the form of Newt's patronus, she left it unrevealed for suspense.

Film portrayal
In the film series, Newt Scamander is portrayed by Eddie Redmayne. Both J. K. Rowling and David Heyman stated that Eddie Redmayne was their "first and only choice" for portraying Newt Scamander. "Not only does he look as if he lives in 1926, but he has all the elements required to be Newt: he's smart, funny, utterly British, and immensely sympathetic [...]" said David Heyman.
Redmayne chose the character's wand himself from a number of different designs because he loved that it was "very simple" and "made of organic materials". Redmayne took the Patronus quiz on Pottermore twice and both times got the same result: a Basset Hound patronus.
During Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, Newt Scamander as a teenager is portrayed by British child artist Joshua Shea.


================================================================================

# Outline of Harry Potter

Harry Potter is a series of fantasy novels by J. K. Rowling.
Harry Potter related topics include:

The original books
The Harry Potter books are 7 novels about a boy who learns he is a famous wizard:

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone—published as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone in the United States
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows

Films
As of 2022, there are eleven motion picture adaptions based on the world, characters and books created by J. K. Rowling. There are eight motion picture adaptations of the Harry Potter novels by J. K. Rowling; the final novel is split into two cinematic parts. While the remaining motion picture adaptions are inspired by both the companion book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them as well has original content developed by JK Rowling. Seven of the eight screenplays were written by Steve Kloves. The fifth was penned by Michael Goldenberg. All three Fantastic Beasts films were written by JK Rowling. David Heyman has produced the franchise, which has seen four different directors. All eleven films are distributed by Warner Bros. In 2016, a spin-off of and prequel to the Harry Potter film series titled  Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them was released. A sequel to Fantastic Beasts entitled Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald was released in 2018. In April 2022 the third part Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore was released. Two more instalments of the Fantastic Beasts series are tentatively  planned for release.

Wizarding World - The shared universe of the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts film series
Harry Potter (film series)
List of Harry Potter cast members
Directed by Chris Columbus:
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)  (known in the United States as "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone")
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)
Directed by Alfonso Cuarón:
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film)
Directed by Mike Newell:
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
Directed by David Yates:
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2
Production of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
 Fantastic Beasts (film series)
List of Fantastic Beasts cast members
List of Fantastic Beasts characters
Directed by David Yates:
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore

Music
Music of the Harry Potter films
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince  soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 soundtrack
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 soundtrack
Music of the Fantastic Beasts films
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them soundtrack
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald soundtrack

Other works
Wizarding World Digital
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts
Secondary books
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them
Quidditch Through the Ages
The Tales of Beedle the Bard
Short stories
Prequel
Hogwarts: An Incomplete and Unreliable Guide
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Power, Politics and Pesky Poltergeists
Short Stories from Hogwarts of Heroism, Hardship and Dangerous Hobbies

Video games
Harry Potter video games

Universe details
Harry Potter universe
List of Harry Potter characters

Character groups
List of supporting Harry Potter characters
Order of the Phoenix (fictional organisation)
Death Eaters
Dumbledore's Army
Hogwarts staff
Places in Harry Potter
Beauxbatons
Diagon Alley
Hogwarts
Magic in Harry Potter
Magical creatures in Harry Potter
Magical objects in Harry Potter
Ministry of Magic
Muggle
Quidditch

Attractions
Harry Potter in amusement parks
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter
Orlando
Japan
Hollywood
Dragon Challenge
Flight of the Hippogriff
Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure
Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts
Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey
Hogwarts Express
Harry Potter Movie Magic Experience
Exhibitions
Harry Potter: The Exhibition
Harry Potter: A History of Magic
Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter
Warner Bros. Studio Tour

Fandom
Harry Potter fandom
A Celebration of Harry Potter
Harry Potter Alliance
Mischief Management
Websites
Harry Potter Fan Zone
The Harry Potter Lexicon
HPANA
The Leaky Cauldron (website)
PotterCast
MuggleNet
Fan fiction
All the Young Dudes
Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality
Hogwarts School of Prayer and Miracles
My Immortal
Fan films
Hermione Granger and the Quarter Life Crisis
Severus Snape and the Marauders
Voldemort: Origins of the Heir
Parodies
Potter Puppet Pals
Puffs, or Seven Increasingly Eventful Years at a Certain School of Magic and Magic
Skulduggery Pleasant: Phase Two
A Very Potter Musical
A Very Potter Musical (album)
A Very Potter Sequel
EP
A Very Potter Senior Year
Wizard People, Dear Reader
Wizard rock
Wrockstock
Draco and the Malfoys
Harry and the Potters
Harry and the Potters (album)
Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock!
Harry and the Potters and the Power of Love
Lumos (album)
Harry and the Potters discography
Ministry of Magic (band)
Myles Kane

Analysis
Harry Potter influences and analogues
Harry Potter in translation
Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series
Harry Potter in Calcutta
Hari Puttar: A Comedy of Terrors
Tanya Grotter
Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. v. RDR Books
Politics of Harry Potter
Religious debates over the Harry Potter series
Harry, A History
Harry Potter and the Sacred Text
The Magical Worlds of Harry Potter
Pollomuhku ja Posityyhtynen
Potterless

Other
Portkey Games
Lego Harry Potter
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
List of organisms named after the Harry Potter series


================================================================================

# Parodies of Harry Potter

The immense popularity and wide recognition of J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter fantasy series has led to its being extensively parodied, in works spanning nearly every medium. The franchise holds the record for the most fan fiction parodies, at over 900,000 Some self-described parodies have been targeted by Rowling and her publishers as plagiarism, while others have sold hundreds of thousands of copies without any threat of legal sanction. Misinterpretations of Harry Potter parodies have sparked at least two urban legends. Many Harry Potter parodies are self-published; others are put out as part of major comic productions, such as Mad, The Simpsons, Saturday Night Live and Robot Chicken, all of which have parodied Harry Potter several times. Rowling has also been parodied (and parodied herself) in a number of instances.

Books

In English
Harry Rotter and the Goblet of Spunk, by Jon Lange, follows the young boy at his first year of school where he hopes to become famous like his deceased parents.
Larry Bottem and the Sorcerer's Scone, by Jake Aroling, follows Larry, Mon, and Wormheinie in a quest to find free food scone.
Barry Trotter is a series of Harry Potter parodies written by Michael Gerber and published in the UK in a small hardback format uniform to the new edition of Bored of the Rings. The series to date comprises Barry Trotter and the Shameless Parody (Barry Trotter and the Unauthorized Parody in the United States), Barry Trotter and the Unnecessary Sequel and Barry Trotter and the Dead Horse (Barry Trotter and the Happy Horse in the United States). The narrative features the adventures of "Barry Trotter", "Lon Measly", and "Ermine Cringer" who attend the "Hogwash School for Wizardry and Witchcrap". The book chronicles their attempts to prevent the making of a film, but the entire story is revealed to have been a film itself, which in turn is shown to be a novel being written by Barry Trotter.
Harry Putter and the Chamber of Cheesecakes by Timothy R. O'Donnell.
Hairy Pothead and the Marijuana Stone by Dana Larsen – a marijuana-laden book-length parody was released in the United States and Canada in October 2007 by Cannabis Culture magazine. The story parallels the original books, but instead of a wizard, Hairy Pothead is a "Weedster" and attends Hempwards School of Herbcraft and Weedery. Characters include Hempwards Master Head Alwaze Duinthadope and Professors Moruvva McGanjagal and Vacuous Vape. The book received extensive media coverage in Canada upon its release.
Hairy Potty and the Underwear of Justice from The Captain Underpants Extra-Crunchy Book o' Fun by Dav Pilkey.
Henry Potty and the Pet Rock: An Unauthorized Harry Potter Parody by Valerie Frankel is a satire of Harry Potter along with children's literature in general. In July 2008 the sequel, Henry Potty and the Deathly Paper Shortage, appeared. These narratives feature the adventures of Henry Potty, Really Wimpy, and Horrendous Gangrene who attend Chickenfeet Academy. The series is metafictional, as the characters know they're in a book, which Lord Revolting keeps trying to spoil.
Parry Hotter and the Seamy Side of Magic by K.C. Ellis.
Henry Shepherd and the Rock of Ages by Richard E. Salisbury is a Christian-themed parody of Harry Potter.
"Howie Monroe and the Doghouse of Doom" by Bunnicula author James Howe and Brett Helquist. It features a dog named Howie Monroe who attends the Dogwiz Academy for Canine Conjurers. Howie must face "The-Evil-Force-Whose-Name-C'not-Be-Spoke", also known as Herbert, the fat cat who sat on his parents.
"Barry Rotter and The Golf Lesson" by R. E. D. McNabb is a satirical short story that reverses Rowling's Harry Potter premise by having the main character escaping the magical world to have adventures in our own. It was published digitally on Smashwords in May 2011.
Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality by Eliezer Yudkowsky. His book illustrates topics in cognitive science and rationality, and has been favorably reviewed by author David Brin and FOSS programmer Eric S. Raymond.
Harry Potter and the Secret Chamber Pot of Azerbaijan, a Comic Relief parody of the first two Harry Potter movies, starring Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders.
Trans Wizard Harriet Porber and the Bad Boy Parasaurolophus by Chuck Tingle, written as a response to Rowling's views on transgender people.
A subplot in the six-book sequel series "Phase Two" to Derek Landy's Skulduggery Pleasant series follows a trio of characters based on the protagonists of Harry Potter, named Never, Omen, and Auger Darkly, respectively based on Hermione Granger, Ron Weasley, and Harry Potter, with the latter referred to as a "Chosen One" supposedly prophesied to kill the all-powerful King of the Darklands. After apparently succeeding in Seasons of War in killing the self-declared "King of the Darklands" the Unnamed, whose death scene parodies that of Voldemort's from the film adaptation, the True King of the Darklands is revealed to be the Child of the Faceless Ones in Dead or Alive. A similar subplot parodying The Twilight Saga was present in the original series.
Harry Otter and the Confectioner's Scone by J.G. Michael. This parody features Harry Otter, a Mongolian wizard with a bite mark on his leg, attending Houndstooth Wizard Boarding School with his friends Rawn and Harmony.

In Russian

Porri Gatter (Порри Гаттер- a spoonerism of "Garri Potter", which is "Harry Potter" pronounced in Russian) is a series of Harry Potter parodies written by Belarusian authors Andrey Zhvalevskiy (Андрей Жвалевский) and Igor' Myt'ko (Игорь Мытько; lives in Moscow, Russia) in Russian. The series is based on an inversion of the Potter mythos: Porri is a technology user in a world of magicians. Four books have so far been published.
Harri Proglotter ("Proglotter" is a pun on the Potter surname and the verb "проглотить" – "to swallow") by Sergey Panarin.
Denis Kotik by Aleksandr Zorich.
Larin Pyotr, by Yaroslav Morozov. Series of Harry Potter parodies
A Boy Named Harry and his Dog Potter, by Valentin Postnikov.

In French
Harry Cover (pronounced like haricots verts, French for green beans), a comic book parody of the Harry Potter series, written by Pierre Veys and drawn by Baka and Cristóbal Esdras, subsequently translated in Spanish and English.
Harry Peloteur et la braguette magique (Harry Fondler and the Magic Zipper, a pun on baguette magique which is French for "magic wand"), a pornographic parody by "Nick Tammer" (sounds like the sexual expletive nique ta mère: possibly a pen name)
Larry Bodter met de l'ordre à Phoenix, Arizona (Larry Bodter Sets Phoenix, Arizona in Order) by Yan Sored.
Henri Potier à l'école des Quartiers (Henri Potier Goes to Posh School; potier literally means "potter") by Pierre de Laubier, 2011.

In Chinese
In China a number of "fake" Harry Potter books were published, using Rowling's name. Bashu Publishing House from Chengdu agreed to pay a $2,500 fine and publish an apology for printing and distributing a Harry Potter novel that Rowling did not write. Other similar Chinese books included "Harry Potter and the Leopard-Walk-Up-to-Dragon" (this is literally text from Tolkien's "The Hobbit" with the character names changed to those of the Potter universe), "Harry Potter and the Golden Turtle", "Harry Potter and the Crystal Vase", "Harry Potter and the Porcelain Doll", "Harry Potter and Beaker and Burn", "Harry Potter and the Water Repelling Pearl", "Harry Potter and the Filler of Big".

In other languages
Heri Kókler (Heri = pronunciation of Harry, Kókler = mountebank) is a Hungarian parody of the Harry Potter series by an author with the fake name K. B. Rottring, a pun on J. K. Rowling. ("K. B." is a Hungarian shorthand for "körülbelül", meaning "approximately", while Rotring is a pen manufacturer, and a generic term for mechanical pencils.) It has more books than the real series, but every real book has its pair.
Harry Pouter by Peter M. Jolin, a series of Harry Potter parodies published in English and Czech language (under name Harry Trottel). To date there are three sequels.
Happy Porter is a parody of Harry Potter series in Indonesia.
Hayri Potur Harry Potter'a Karşı (Hayri Potur against Harry Potter) is a parody of the Harry Potter series in Turkey which is written by Muzaffer İzgü.
Harry Pórrez was a parody of Harry Potter series. This Spanish comic book is divided into four parts: Harry Pórrez y el Misterio del Santo Grial (Harry Pórrez and the Mystery of the Holy Grail), Harry Pórrez y el Prisionero de Alacrán (Harry Pórrez and the Prisoner of Scorpion), Harry Pórrez y el Trofeo de Fuego (Harry Pórrez and the Trophy of Fire) and the last part, whose name is also the comic book's name Harry Pórrez y el As en la Manga de Condemort (Harry Pórrez and the Ace up Condemort's Sleeve).
Larry Otter und der Knüppel aus dem Sack (Larry Otter and the Cudgel in the Sack) is a German parody of the first volume of the Harry Potter series by Frank Schmelzer using the pseudonym of Jane R. Rohling ("Rohling" is a German word for a brute/ruffian).
Larry Potter is a comic by German author Fil, parodying both the Harry Potter-series as stereotypes about magic in general.
Harry Potra is a comic parody of Harry Potter series in Catalan.
Garry Poker is a Czech parody about young card players Garry Poker and his friends Hormone Danger and The Weasel (all the Weasels have weird first names) attending Hogfields College of Cards and Gambling and fighting Doctor Flssstfckmnst (He Who Cannot Be Spelled). Although Hogfields is only 4-year school, the series is divided into 7 parts according to original HP series. The author manages that by letting Garry fail exams in first book and making the tournament in fourth book take place during summer camp. To date, there are four complete books – Garry Poker and the Blue Ace of Spades, Garry Poker and his Blissful Years of Secrets, Garry Poker and the Prisoner of Az-Cardan, Garry Poker and the Goblet of Putrefy and several chapters of the fifth available in Czech, but the author made a list of names in English for further translations.

Film and television

Films
Harry Potter was one of many spoofs in the 2007 film Epic Movie.
Richardson Productions LLC produced "Harvey Putter and the Ridiculous Premise" in 2010.
Benjamin Sniddlegrass and the Cauldron of Penguins is a 2011 Australian parody feature/medium-length film inspired by the Kermode and Mayo film review programme. In his review of the film Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief, BBC radio film critic Mark Kermode remarked that the general plot of the film was so similar to the Harry Potter series that it may as well have been called Benjamin Sniddlegrass and the Cauldron of Penguins. His co-host Simon Mayo declared that he wanted to see that film. Assembling a cast made up of performers from amateur musical theater societies around Sydney and penning the screenplay himself, Jeremy Dylan and his production team started shooting on 6 June 2010 and shot the film over seven days between June and mid-October, on location, in Australia.
In Scary Movie 2, the book was parodied, titled "Harry Pothead", with a picture of Harry smoking on a bong.
Whorrey Potter and the Sorcerer's Balls is a gay pornographic parody of the first film and novel, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone and was released in 2010.
In The Starving Games, Harry Potter and friends appear briefly, only to be told that their film franchise has concluded and need not be parodied further.

U.S. television

Animated
* The Simpsons:

In "Wiz Kids", the third act of the episode "Treehouse of Horror XII", Lisa and Bart attend Springwart's School of Magicry, and must fight against the evil Lord Montymort (Montgomery Burns). Harry is in their class, and has just one line of dialogue (provided by Tress MacNeille): after Edna Krabappel accuses him of chewing gum in class he replies "No, ma'am, it's brimstone".
Lisa's favorite book series, Angelica Button, is a recurring gag and clearly a parody of Harry Potter:
In the episode "The Haw-Hawed Couple", Lisa asks Homer to read her Angelica Button book to her for bedtime. Homer, learning that the character Headmaster Greystash will die (à la Albus Dumbledore in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince), hides the fact from Lisa by inventing a happier ending, though Lisa does read the real ending and decides that Homer's was better.
In the episode "Smoke on the Daughter", the Simpsons go to the midnight release of the final Angelica Button book. On the ride home from the store, Lisa skims through the book, revealing all of the best parts. Once Lisa reveals that the book ends well the Simpsons exclaim "Yay!" and all except Lisa throw their copies of the book out the car windows.
Nigel Planter is a recurring character in the Cartoon Network series The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy. He first appeared in the episode "Toadblatt's School of Sorcery", which parodies Animal House as well as Harry Potter. He reappeared in the episodes "Nigel Planter and the Chamber Pot of Secrets", "One Crazy Summoner" and "Order of the Peanuts". The episodes feature Lord Moldybutt, a parody of Lord Voldemort, and whenever someone says his name, something unfortunate happens. Toadblatt's School of Sorcery is a parody of Hogwarts, and the Squid Hat, voiced by "Weird Al" Yankovic, is a parody of the Sorting Hat. The house of Weaslethorpe is a parody of Gryffindor and the opposing Gunderstank house is a parody of the Hogwarts house Slytherin.
In the episode "One Crazy Summoner", Billy seeks out Nigel Planter because he believes he can talk to snakes; Nigel later corrects him, stating that he cannot speak to snakes, but snacks. Nigel then asks for help winning the affections of Herfefnie Pfefferpfeffer, a parody of Hermione Granger, who ends up falling for Dorko Malfly, a parody of Draco Malfoy, instead.
In the episode "Order of the Peanuts", Mandy was able to predict how Nigel Planter would sneak into the school. She was right in guessing that he would fill the position of "Defence Against really Dark Things", since it changes in every book and film. They also commented on the changing of Dumbledore's actor after the second film.
In the American Dad! episode, "Dope and Faith", Roger is annoyed at Steve when he starts gloating about how special he is after being told this by a fortune teller at a carnival, and decides to play a prank on him in retaliation. He sends him a fake acceptance letter from Hogwarts, but the address given is actually that of a crackhouse. After Steve "enrols" he still fails to realize this, as he believes the outer appearance of the building is due to enchantments, that the crack operation is potions class, and that the Spanish-speaking dealers are chanting magic words. When Steve "borrows" some "Potions supplies", the dealers follow him home, and Roger convinces him that they are Death Eaters in disguise. Roger manages to defeat them in a shootout, although Steve believes that he himself vanquished them, as he had been wielding a chopstick given to him by Roger which he believed was a magic wand, and he was unable to see what was really going on due to having broken his glasses prior to the battle.
Henry Skreever was the title of a book series mentioned in three episodes of the PBS Kids television series Arthur. In the first, "Prunella's Special Edition", a new book had just come out entitled Henry Skreever and the Cabbage of Mayhem and all the characters were reading it. The second, "Prunella Sees the Light", featured the Henry Skreever movie, Henry Skreever and the Brick of Wonders. This parody features the villain "Lord Moldywort." In the third, "Prunella Deegan and the Disappointing Ending", Marina and Prunella race to see who can finish reading the last book, The Knights of the Bouillabaisse, first. The school of magic that Henry attends is known as "Pigblisters" (Hogwarts). Students participate in the game "Soupitch" (Quidditch), a dangerous, mobile tree is called "The Mangling Maple" (The Whomping Willow), and instead of broomsticks, students ride on flying carpets.
In the animated series Cyberchase, the young spellcaster Shari Spotter attends Frogsnorts school of magic under Professor Stumblesnore. The show's main characters must solve a series of magical themed logic problems to save the day.
An episode of The Emperor's New School is called "The Prisoner of Kuzcoban", which is a parody of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.
In the Clifford the Big Red Dog episode "Magic in the Air", Charley becomes so overly obsessed with fictional book character, Peter Poundstone (a series of books about a young wizard similar to the Harry Potter series), that he attempts to use magic to create a diorama (as part of a school assignment).
An episode of the animated series The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius, "Lights! Camera! Danger!", features Jimmy and his friends filming a movie. In one scene, Jimmy is Parry Bladder, who attends Pigpimples School, and needs to defeat a parody of the basilisk from Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.
In the Futurama episode "Crimes of the Hot", Al Gore is shown to have written a book called Harry Potter and the Balance of Earth, a more successful version of Earth in the Balance.
In The Fairly OddParents episode "Wishology", one of Timmy's wishes is a Harry Potter parody. Vicky and Timmy are shown playing Quidditch, where Timmy portrays Harry, Vicky portrays Lord Moldywart (Lord Voldemort), and Poof is the "Purple" snitch.
In the animated series Martha Speaks, the character TD is a fan of a character called Harry Blotter. TD sat down to watch a marathon of the films in the series. He said that all four prequels and all four sequels were being aired, followed by the premiere of the ninth film, which didn't make much sense, as there should already have been nine films if there were four prequels and four sequels. Blotter's enemy, possibly, is the "Dark Lord of Really Dark Darkness", though this may have been a character created by TD for a school project about Thomas Edison.
In the Mad episode "Potions 11 / Moves Like Jabba", Harry Potter gathers a team of wizards to find a wand that will let the franchise live forever in a parody of Ocean's 11.
In the animated series Fanboy & Chum Chum, there are two child wizard characters; a British red-headed boy named Kyle Bloodworth-Thomason, a parody of Ron Weasley, and his German blond-haired rival, Sigmund the Sorcerer, who is a parody of Draco Malfoy.

Non-animated
Harry Potter has been parodied several times on the U.S. sketch comedy Saturday Night Live. In all sketches, Harry is portrayed by Rachel Dratch except for the "Welcome Back Potter" sketch in which Harry is played by Will Forte. In addition, Hermione Granger was played by Lindsay Lohan, who wore a revealing sweater that showed a good deal of her breasts, causing Harry and Ron, then the Weasley twins, and even Snape and Hagrid to gawk at her in amazement and lust. (The boys decide to use the Invisibility Cloak to spy on Hermione in the bath.) This was to parody the fact that Hermione had reached puberty. A recent sketch featuring J. K. Rowling (played by Amy Poehler) showed deleted scenes from Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban where Albus Dumbledore (played by Bill Hader) acts gay. More recently, Daniel Radcliffe played Harry in a sketch where it has been ten years since his graduation (though this was never shown in the books), and is still at Hogwarts as a tenant. Harry meets new students and realizes Ron and Hermione have become professors.
Harry Potter has also been parodied on MADtv, where Triple H played Harry.
The Disney Channel comedy series So Random! featured a sketch called "Harry Potter: In The Real World", showing Harry in the real world, trying to find a job at fictional fast food restaurant, Flippy's. Harry's lightning bolt scar and his birth scroll are shown. The So Random Christmas special featured a sketch called "Volde-mart", where Voldemort owns a supermarket and can't get any of his Voldemort dolls to sell, and is furious when he finds out that the Harry Potter dolls are flying off the shelves, so furious that he uses the Avada Kedavra curse on a Harry Potter cardboard cutout in similar style to how Ralph Fiennes as Voldemort uses the curse when he destroys the Horcrux in Harry in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2. Also, as a parody of the final film, Harry Potter enters and says Daniel Radcliffe's line, "Come on Tom, let's finish this the way we started it, together." and then hugs Voldemort. Also mentioned in this sketch is Toy's R Severus, in parody of the character Severus Snape.
"Harry Bladder" was a sketch shown on the sketch comedy series All That. Instead of flying on a broom, Harry rode a leaf-blower. The sketch also featured a bowlegged Professor Chafe.
In the series Wizards of Waverly Place, the episodes "Wizard School Part 1" and "Wizard School Part 2" features Alex and Justin Russo going to a wizarding summer school named Wiz-tech, where everyone wears round glasses and yellow and black robes. When Alex sees the similarities, she says, "You remind me of someone. Terry something... Barry something... Larry something! Oh, forget it." Dumbledore is parodied as Headmaster Crumbs, Draco Malfoy is parodied as Jerko Phoenix, and the villain is named Dr. Evilini, who plans on taking Justin's powers. Quidditch is parodied through a game called 12-ball, which is similar to ping pong. To end the game, you "hit the tattler"; tattler also being another name for a "snitch." In another episode of the same series, Alex, Justin and Max magically travel to an apartment where they meet author H. J. Darling, (a parody of J. K. Rowling) to inquire as to her reasoning for using stories from their lives in her series called "Charmed and Dangerous", (a parody of the Harry Potter books themselves).
An episode of Pair of Kings featured a flashback showing King Brady at school, when he used to dress up like Harry Potter, and dubbed himself as Brady Potter, and even addressed his twin brother King Boomer as Boomer Weasley, but eventually stopped doing so, after he, along with Boomer, were tied up by the school bully, Rondo, who used Brady's incredibly long scarf.
Harry Potter was also parodied in the series Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide in the episode "Guide to: Substitute Teachers and The New Kid". In the end of "The New Kid" part, a boy wearing glasses, clothes and a scarf similar to Harry Potter's in the film series appears, wanting to go on a tour of the school. In a Halloween-themed episode, Ned has to take his BAT test, a parody of OWLs.
In the Fetch episode "CSI: Ruff", a school called Dogwarts is featured, which is a reference to Hogwarts.
In Episode 4281 of Sesame Street, Telly & Gordon are looking for Gordon's reading glasses in order for Telly to read the latest Furry Potter book, Furry Potter and the Goblet of Fur by J. K. Furball.
Harry Potter was also mentioned in the Drake & Josh episode "Megan's New Teacher".

UK television
In the final episode of Only Fools and Horses, titled "Sleepless in Peckham", Del and Rodney try to come up with money-making ideas. Del's idea is for Rodney to write a Harry Potter book but Rodney refuses due to copywriting. Del informs Rodney to change the name to 'Harry Trotter', calling him "a little git with John Lennon glasses".
In the first series of The Legend of Dick and Dom, Princes Dick and Dom send their terrible wizard, Mannitol, back to wizard school while they hunt down a dragon's clack, the next potion ingredient.
Alistair McGowan, on his show Big Impression, did a sketch called "Louis Potter and the Philosopher's Scone". It featured impressions of Louis Theroux (as Harry Potter), Neil and Christine Hamilton (as the Dursleys), Nigella Lawson (as Hermione), Anne Robinson (as Ron), Mark Lawrenson (as the Quirrell-figure) and Gary Lineker (as the Voldemort figure). It also featured impressions of Robbie Coltrane (as Hagrid) and Alan Rickman (as Snape), these last two being the actual actors who played parts in the film.
BBC satirical comedy programme Dead Ringers featured Harry Potter in several sketches over the years, at one point spoofing Star Wars, Potter and The Lord of the Rings in a single sketch, calling attention to the mysterious old magician who befriends the young male lead character.
In 2003, Comic Relief performed a spoof story called Harry Potter and the Secret Chamberpot of Azerbaijan. It featured Dawn French as a female Harry; Jennifer Saunders as Ron Weasley and J. K. Rowling; Miranda Richardson as Hermione; Nigel Planer as Dumbledore (wearing the beard and costume of Richard Harris); Jeremy Irons as Professor Severus Snape; Alison Steadman as Minerva McGonagall; Ronnie Corbett as Hagrid and Basil Brush as Dobby the house elf. The broadcast of this parody was preceded by a message from J. K. Rowling. French was subsequently cast as The Fat Lady in 2004's Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, while Richardson was later cast as Rita Skeeter in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. The end of Secret Chamberpot featured an advert for the sequel, Gobs of Fire, which was never made. It is unknown whether it was ever planned, or if it was just a spoof.
2DTV featured a sketch in which an Ofsted inspector was inspecting Hogwarts. The inspector found no faults with the school, except for the atrocious acting of the Year 9 students (Harry, Ron and Hermione).
Episode 2.3 of the BBC comedy Extras featured a thinly-veiled spoof of Harry Potter with Daniel Radcliffe and Warwick Davis parodying their own Potter roles. Radcliffe's character was repeatedly shown trying to seduce his female co-workers on the set, but failed miserably and blamed them when he was caught by his mother.
Gromit, from the Wallace and Gromit short film series graduated from Dogwarts University; Dogwarts is a parody of Hogwarts.
Flacky Rotter and the Friend Count of Justice was a parody shown in the second series of the CBBC TV series TMI.
In one episode of the short-lived CBBC series Gina's Laughing Gear, a short parody of Harry Potter (and Supernanny) was shown, wherein Supernanny attempted to punish the trio of protagonists (played by different actors in an attempt to parody the originals) with the "Naughty step", later getting transfigured into a mouse and placed in "Ron"'s pocket.
In the Doctor Who episode The Shakespeare Code, The Doctor and Martha Jones talk about witches and refer to the book series, she says: "It's all a bit Harry Potter", to which The Doctor replies saying that he already read 'Book 7' and that he cried at the end (the episode aired three months before the book's publication, explaining why it is referred as 'Book 7'). At the end of the episode William Shakespeare, Martha Jones use the ancient word Expelliarmus (a Harry Potter spell) to banish the Carrionites; because of the success of banishing the Carrionites, The Doctor shouts: "Good old J.K.!". There are also some small references in the episode about David Tennant, who plays The Doctor and also played Barty Crouch Jr. in the fourth Harry Potter film.
An episode of The Pinky and Perky Show has an episode with a character named Harry Trotter.
An episode of Bear Behaving Badly titled Nev the Bear Wizard features a parody of the Harry Potter series, in which Nev the Bear is transported through a magic door into The School of Magic And Magic Stuff. The main characters of the series are then shown as parodies of characters from the Harry Potter series; Nev is Nevvy Potter, Crazy Keith is Keithione, Dorris is Ronnis, Aunt Barbra is Bagrid, Postie is Poochie, and Mr Prank is Valdiprank.

Other television
The Wedge, an Australian sketch comedy, parodies Harry and Hermione in love on a "Cooking With..." show before being caught by Snape.
An episode of Kirby: Right Back at Ya!, also known as Kirby of the Stars in its original Japanese version, titled "A Novel Approach", features a book titled "Pappy Pottey and the Fool's Stone".
Berndi Broter und der Kasten der Katastrophen (literally "Berndi Broter and the case of disasters"), an episode of the German children's television puppet character Bernd das Brot, who attend Blockharz.
In many episodes of 'You're Skitting Me!' (an Australian comedy show), there are Harry Potter parodies always ending in a character saying "You just HAD to invite Voldemort, didn't you?"
In Tensou Sentai Goseiger, the Dark Headder Bari-Boru-Dara of the Uniberus Headder (ユニベロスヘッダーのバリ・ボル・ダラ, Yuniberosu Heddā no Bari Boru Dara) was named after the Harry Potter books.

Publications

The Onion

The spoof newspaper The Onion has parodied Harry Potter several times, most notably in the article "Harry Potter Books Spark Rise in Satanism Among Children", which satirized the hysteria of the American Christian Right over the supposedly Satanic influence of the novels on the young. The article was copied into a chain letter and circulated among critics of the series as proof of their claims.
Another Onion article, "Children, Creepy Middle-Aged Weirdos Swept Up in Harry Potter Craze", referenced the books' popularity among people one would assume were too old for them.
ONN, the Onion's satirical spoof of television news, carried an item in the lead up to release of the final Harry Potter book entitled "JK Rowling hints at Harry Potter date rape".
The Onion also satirized the Harry Potter fandom's fear of spoilers, particularly in the run-up to the final book, with an article stating that Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows had itself been attacked for containing spoilers.

Mad magazine
Harry Plodder and the Kidney Stone – a text-driven parody of the first book written by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by James Warhola. Cover story of Mad No. 391 (March 2000 issue).
Harry Plodder and the Sorry-Ass Story— a parody of the first film, by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by Mort Drucker. Cover story of Mad No. 412 (December 2001). (The parody was retitled "Harry Plodder and the Philistine Story" in overseas editions of Mad where the book and film's original title was used. Artist Drucker, who has worked for Mad since 1956, inspired the villain's parody name: Lord Druckermort.)
Harry Plodder and the Lamest of Sequels— a parody of the second film, by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by Tom Richmond. Cover story of Mad No. 424 (December 2002).
Harry Plodder and the Pre-Teen Nerds are Actin' Bad – a parody of the third film, by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by Hermann Mejia. Cover story of Mad No. 443 (July 2004).
Harry Plodder Has Gotta Retire – a parody of the fourth film, by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by Hermann Mejia. Cover story of Mad No. 460 (December 2005).
Harry Plodder and the Torture of the Fanbase – a parody of the fifth film, by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by Tom Richmond. Cover story of Mad No. 480 (August 2007).
Harry Plodder is a Hot-Blooded Putz – a parody of the sixth film, by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by Hermann Mejia. Appeared in Mad No. 501 (October 2009).
Harry Plodder and It's Dreadful What Follows; a parody of the seventh film, by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by Tom Richmond. Appeared in Mad No. 507 (February 2011).
Harry Plodder is Definitely Halted -- Adieu! – a parody of the eighth film, by Desmond Devlin, illustrated by Hermann Mejia. Appeared in the Mad Presents Harry Potter special edition (September 2011). The edition also reprinted all of the above articles, as well as additional Potter-related material that had been published by Mad.

Other publications
In their May 2004 issue, the U.S. Army publication Preventive Maintenance Monthly, which instructs soldiers on how to maintain their equipment, featured a spoof comic based on Harry Potter, featuring a character named Topper who resided at Mogmarts School under Professor Rumbledore. The publication received notice from Rowling's lawyers that the comics breached copyright, though the magazine's editor claimed that no violation had taken place, as "The drawings do not look like any of the characters from Harry Potter."
A parody of Hogwarts can be seen in Futurama Comics No. 16. While trying to find a boarding school for Cubert, the crew visits a magic school on the planet Rowling VI. Cubert's insistence that a school cannot exist solely based on faith causes the school and the magical creatures within it to vanish.
"Continuing the Magic", in Time by Lon Tweeten, shows possible future book covers laced with pop culture references such as "The Audition of Doom" with Simon Cowell judging Harry harshly, "The Paris Hilton Enchantment" with a trio of familiar Dementors, and "Dark Lord of the Dance" with Voldemort and Harry teaming up on Broadway.
In the comic strip The Argyle Sweater, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is satirized in a panel, where Dumbledore has passed a bladder stone and the doctor tells Harry that Dumbledore must avoid strenuous sorcery for a week and to lay off the potion.
In the comic book series Tozzer, the titular character studies at an acting school called Boarboils, a parody of Hogwarts. The character Tozzer is also occasionally depicted with a swastika scar on his forehead, and believes that he is a magician.
An issue of The Beano briefly depicted the character Herbert (of The Bash Street Kids) reading a book entitled Harry Potter and the Movie Rites.
A Christian parody of Harry Potter entitled Hairy Polarity and the Sinister Sorcery Satire follows the adventure of Ari Potiphar and his friend Minne, who soon find out that demons have possessed them and only the power of prayer can save them.
The comic strip "Harry Botter" appeared in issue 111, Dec/Jan 2001, of Viz. "Botter" is derived from the word "bottom", (buttocks) and the story is focused on the schoolboy protagonist's anus.
The Unwritten is a comic book series about the nature of stories and storytelling, and their social impacts, which incorporates several elements of the Harry Potter series into its preeminent fiction-within-a-fiction series Tommy Taylor.
In Alan Moore and Kevin O'Neill's comic book series The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, which crosses over countless works of fiction in the same universe, the third volume chronicles events that culminate in the events of the Harry Potter series. In the novel, an unrecognizable Harry is portrayed as the Anti-Christ, and all his adventures have merely been staged to manipulate him into destroying the world. On learning this, Harry destroys Hogwarts and murders everyone in it, including Ron and Hermione. Various characters describe Harry as 'banal.'  He appears at the end of the novel as a rapidly mutating monster before he is destroyed by God taking the form of Mary Poppins. None of the characters or locations in the series are mentioned by name to avoid conflict with J.K. Rowling, as Moore has done with other characters belonging to other authors. No references are made to any of the actual events of the series, and the summary given of them is inconsistent with the actual story.

Online

Movies and animations

Potter Puppet Pals
Potter Puppet Pals, created by Neil Cicierega, is a series of live-action puppet show performances parodying the Harry Potter book and film series. Episodes so far have been about Snape with disastrous results (titled "Bothering Snape") and killing Lord Voldemort with machine guns (titled "Trouble at Hogwarts"). Fifteen further videos, featuring real puppets ("Potions Class", "Wizard Angst", "The Mysterious Ticking Noise", "Wizard Swears", "School Is For Losers", "Albus Dumbledore Lists Your Good Qualities", "The Vortex", "Ron's Disease", "Snape's Diary", "INSANELY important Potter Puppet Pals news!", "Harry Potter personally welcomes you. Yes, you." "Ron's Parents", "Harry's Nightmares", "Draco Puppet", "Mustache Buddies","Ginny" and "Neville's Birthday") have been released on YouTube, as well as the illustrated "Potter Puppet Christmas Card + Yule Ball 2010 info!" The episode "The Mysterious Ticking Noise", based around the concept of a musical ostinato, has become very popular on YouTube since its publication in March 2007, and is the 25th most viewed video of all time on the website, with over 135,000,000 views. The episode later aired on UK television as part of the CBBC programme Chute!. Live shows at "The Yule Ball" have also been performed, which can also be found on YouTube.
There was also a cancelled episode, The Potter Puppet Pals Adventure, which still exists in audio form, and has been animated by a member of the Lemon Demon wiki. In it, Rubeus Hagrid, the Dursleys, and Draco Malfoy were originally slated to appear.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Weapons
Harry Potter and the Deathly Weapons is a 2020 fan edit of the 2001 film Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. In the full-length, unauthorised edit, all of the wands are digitally replaced with guns. The parody took five years to create, and was described by its creator as a joke, "with over 175 brand-spankin' new good-enough-looking special effects shots". A review in Vice found the fan edit "Tarantino-worthy", while another in Screen Rant found the digital replacement of wands to range from seamless to "less successful". Scene changes include Hagrid shooting Dudley in the buttocks, Hermione performing the "Wingardium Leviosa" spell with a gun, and shooting Neville in the head instead of immobilising him. The creator of the fan edit stated that it started out as a "tasteless joke" in the wake of mass shootings and noted how easy it was to put guns in Hollywood film. In a website for the parody, links are included to organisations opposed to gun violence and the site invites viewers to "see how riddikulus the notion of guns in schools looks".

Other videos
Dark Lord Funk – Harry Potter Parody of 'Uptown Funk is a YouTube video produced by KFaceTV. The video parodies both the Harry Potter series and English producer Mark Ronson's music video for Uptown Funk (which features guest vocals by American recording artist Bruno Mars). In the music video, Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters, including Bellatrix Lestrange, taunt Harry Potter with a choreographed song telling him that the Dark Lord will "Funk you up". Voldemort and his followers are shown in a variety of scenes (similar to the Mark Ronson video, including Voldemort in a barber shop wearing pink curlers) singing to Harry. In the video, Voldemort is also the lead singer of a band called 'Tom & The Riddles.' J.K. Rowling called the video "a work of genius.” Jason Isaacs (whose character Lucius Malfoy is not in the video) described the video as "funking amazing...sheer unadulterated genius.” Originally published in March 2015, the video had more than 7 million YouTube views in its first three weeks, and now has more than 14.5 million views.
Annoying Orange produced a Harry Potter-themed video Orange Potter and the Deathly Apple which contained these character and spell parodies. Originally published in July 2011, the YouTube video has more than 14.2 million views.
Orange Potter (parody of Harry Potter/Orange)
Snapefruit (parody of Snape/Grapefruit)
Pear Weasley (parody of Ron/Pear)
Passion Granger (parody of Hermione/Passion Fruit)
Moldy Warts (parody of Voldemort)
Grandpa Lemondore (parody of Dumbledore/Grandpa Lemon)
Jellyarmis (parody of Expelliarmus)
AppleCadabra (parody of Avada Kedavra a.k.a. The Death Curse)
Harry Potter and the Dark Lord Waldemart is a parody of Harry Potter produced by Walmart Watch to illustrate their negative perspective of Walmart. Published in October 2006, the parody video has more than 2.4 million views.
Harry Potter und ein Stein (Harry Potter and a Stone) is a parody of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. The videos feature the film dubbed in German. The original parody, produced by YouTube user Coldmirror, has been reposted by YouTube user GamerXC3. Since this secondary publishing in August 2012, the video has had more than 1.6 million views. Two sequels were released, a parody of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets called Harry Potter und der geheime Pornokeller (Harry Potter and the Secret Porn Basement) and a parody of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire called Harry Potter und der Plastikpokal (Harry Potter and the Plastic Cup) which was never finished due to copyright claims by Warner Bros.
Harry Cook and the Goblet of Borscht (Russian: Гарри Повар и кубок Борща) is a parody of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire produced by kora0081. The video features the Russian dub of the film. Published in September 2013, the video has more than 1.2 million views.
Harry Potter Bad Roommate is a YouTube video series produced by ShakeState where three students live together with Harry Potter as their roommate. The episodes involve Harry trying to cope with a post-modern, non-magical society. For instance, he still believes that Lord Voldemort is after him and that Dementors and Death Eaters are a constant threat, to the great annoyance of his roommates. The actors include Jon Frederick as Mike, Dawan Owens as Brad, and Mark R. Gerson as Harry. There is a fourth actor whose name changes in the opening credits of every episode. These names include Trip Taylor, Flip Hawkins, Chip Cosby, and Blaze "Rip" Nyugen. First produced in April 2007, the video series has more than a million YouTube views.
Harry Potter and the Ten Years Later is a YouTube video series produced by FuriousMolecules. A parody of the Harry Potter series, it is set ten years after the events of the last book (ignoring the epilogue). Published in October 2012, the series had almost a million views in its first two years.
String Studios LLC produced the Harry Potter parody for YouTube Half-Blood Pimp: Hermione does Hogwarts. Published in February 2007, the video has more than 100,000 views.
Harry Potter and the Music Video Parody (about Hermione!), a parody of "Let It Go" from Disney's Frozen, is a YouTube video produced by Perfectly Serious Productions that parodies actual scenes from the Harry Potter films as well as some added shots:. Hermione sings to the audience about how she was the one who really did all the work and should get the recognition instead of Harry. Published in March 2016, the video has more than 83,000 views.
Harry Potter and the Rejected Scenes was a three-part YouTube video series produced by TheFineBros around 2010-2011. Using official toy figurines and sometimes South Park-style mouth movements, the three-to-four minute videos provided comical discussions between main characters in the Harry Potter series, with plenty of meta moments. In the first episode, Harry chooses to side with Draco Malfoy upon meeting him, explaining to Ron his reasoning for this, then later gets sorted into Slytherin and intends to assist Lord Voldemort. In the second episode, Hermione and Ron share their concerns with Harry about the adult male characters' attempts to groom Harry, including Hagrid and Sirius asking Harry to visit their abodes late at night, Dumbledore curiously inquiring as to Harry's relationship with Hermione and reminding Harry to let Professor Slughorn 'collect' him, and Lupin always offering Harry chocolate treats. The third episode involves Harry gathering all his romantic interests from the films (Ginny, Cho and the waitress from Half-Blood Prince), pointing out the variety of different ethnicities of the women he's been interested in, then explaining who he has chosen as his lover (Luna Lovegood).

Online audio
Harry Potter and the Half-Assed Parody is a chapter-by-chapter parody of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. It was written and performed by The Deadly Abridgment and is currently available on both iTunes and YouTube.
Dirty Potter is a trilogy of audio shorts were made through creative use of word splicing and sound editing. The characters have been reimaged into overly lustful and sex-crazed; frequently engaging in comedic and lewd activities and using vulgar language. Each audio short is narrated by British actor Jim Dale, who also has been reimaged in the context of the parody. These clips were previously only hosted on YouTube, but were "removed due to a Terms of Use violation". The clips are now available at the "Dirty Potter" website and have since been re-added to YouTube.
Harry Potter and the Scary Tiki Mask is a parody of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. It was written and voiced entirely by Andrew Lemonier, a former actor and comedy writer. The videos are available on YouTube.

Webcomics
The Order of the Stick used a character for strip No. 253 named Larry Gardener, a student at Warthog's School of Wizardry and Sorcery, who was quickly killed off.
Webcomic Sluggy Freelance's main character is Torg, a bright but uncomplicated character whose last name we never learn. In Pete Abrams' first parody, Torg Potter and the Sorcerer's Nuts, Torg is mistaken for the Lastnameless One and brought into Hoggelrynth to learn magic. He subsequently defeats a plot by Professor Santory Snapekin to achieve ultimate power. Despite Torg's not having any actual magic powers, he is embroiled in a plot to turn everybody into chocolate in Torg Potter and the Chamberpot of Secretions. In Torg Potter and the President from Arkansas, Blearious Stank escapes from prison, and Torg is considered to be in danger due to being the "Torg Potter of Record". Torg is jibported back to Hoggelrynth to take part in the Tri-Gizzard Tournament in Torg Potter and the Giblets with Fiber. The parodies are modelled after the films rather than the books, and follow the film releases.
The webcomic VG Cats featured a parody of Harry Potter (Wise Advice: Fullmetal vs. Harry Potter) in which Harry finds the Philosopher's Stone at the same time as Edward and Alphonse Elric from the Japanese media franchise Fullmetal Alchemist. The result is Harry and Edward getting into a fight after several insults are exchanged.
The webcomic Gunnerkrigg Court featured a short scene where the main characters, Annie and Kat, hear about a new student the local bully is tormenting. Just before the bully can hang the boy (who looks exactly like a cartoon Harry Potter) up on the flagpole, Annie and Kat stop him and chase the bully away. However, instead of being grateful, he claims that he and his wand had it under complete control. When Annie points out the "wand" is just a twig, he gets offended and tries to cast a spell on Annie and Kat in exactly the same pose as Harry in the film series when he casts a powerful spell. Nothing happens and Annie and Kat end up hanging him up on the flagpole themselves.
Wizard School is a webcomic parody of Harry Potter, in which an eight-year-old "chosen one" with a mark on his forehead is replaced by the villain, a drunken adult jerk with a tattoo, who attends the school for wizards in his place.
Potters and Potions is a screencap comic in the vein of Darths and Droids, or DM of the Rings. It follows the plot of the film series, as if the characters were players in an RPG.
Harry Potter and the Portrait of What Looked Like a Large Pile of Ash is a one-chapter predictive text-assisted short story produced using software from Botnik Studios. A predictive text keyboard was created using all seven volumes of J.K.Rowling's books, and the output text resembled her writing style.

Stage
Puffs, or Seven Increasingly Eventful Years at a Certain School of Magic and Magic is a 2015 original play by New York-based playwright Matt Cox. The play is a comedic retelling of the Harry Potter series, but from the perspective of the "Puffs".
In August 2006, Potted Potter (subtitled "The Unauthorized Harry Experience") by Dan & Jeff (Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner) of Potted Productions premiered at the Edinburgh Fringe festival in Scotland. It continues to tour venues worldwide today, after sell out runs in London's West End and New York, and has even been translated into Spanish for a run in Mexico City in 2014. It abbreviates all seven canonical books into seventy minutes. It was nominated for the Olivier 'Best Entertainment' award in 2012.
In April 2009, a group of University of Michigan students (StarKid Productions) performed "Harry Potter: The Musical", a two-act musical parody that featured major elements from all seven books and an original score. They posted the entire musical on their YouTube channel but removed it in late June, to edit some more mature elements from the videos. The musical, retitled A Very Potter Musical, was reposted on 5 July 2009. The plot followed Voldemort's attempts to return to his body using Professor Quirrell and the House Cup Tournament. A sequel was premiered at the 2010 HPEF Harry Potter Conference Infinitus. The sequel was later released on YouTube on 22 July at 8pm EST, called A Very Potter Sequel, and featured the Death Eaters using the Time-Turner to go back in time to Harry's first year at Hogwarts. At Leakycon 2012 in Chicago, A Very Potter Senior Year was performed. The script and soundtrack were released on 15 December and it premiered on YouTube on 15 March 2013 at 8pm EST.
In 2005, the University of Queensland Law Revue released Harry Potter's Scar, a parody of the song Scar by Missy Higgins, where a hormonal Harry (on piano) and Silent Bob-style Dumbledore (on guitar) pitched "Harry Potter: The Musical" to J.K. Rowling.
In 2011, Push the Limits Performance Company in Australia performed Barry Popper and the Return of the Dark Lord, written by Trick Cole and directed by Trick Cole and Tate Bennett. It featured characters such as Barry Popper, Ren Beaseley, Harmony Grunge and Professor Dumbledoofus going on a quest to defeat the Dark Lord Monty (Voldemort's younger brother). A sequel is being written.
Harry Podder: Dude Where's My Wand?, a play by Desert Star Theater in Utah, written by sisters Laura J., Amy K. and Anna M. Lewis. The plot, which takes place at the Utah-based Warthogs school for wizards, features Harry Podder, Hermione Ranger, Ron Sneasley, Professor McGargoyle and the Dark wizard Voldie.
Henry Botter and the Curse of Dracula, a 2007 Halloween-themed cross-parody of Harry Potter and Dracula, written and directed by Logan Rogan.
Acid Reflux Comedy Troupe of Chicago, Illinois had a sketch comedy show titled "Harry Potty and the Order of the Wenis" in August 2007.
The Chuckle Brothers toured the stage show Barry Potty and his Smarter Brother Paul in the Chamber of Horrors.
Harry Potter and the Obnoxious Voice – The Parody!, a cross-parody of Stranger than Fiction and the Harry Potter books and films, written by Jeannette Jaquish in 2007 for actors aged five to adult. The story's theme is the widening rift between facts of both the book and film series demonstrated in bizarre "changes" at Hogwarts that only Harry can see. Comic scenes of Dobby and Winky panicking over missing cheese, Ron slopping a potion on Snape, Dumbledore missing his meal ticket as well as his mind, and Malfoy deflecting a dementor as he earns his free lunch in the Hogwarts cafeteria poke fun at the icons of J.K. Rowling's books. In 2010, Jaquish wrote two additional scenes which added Peeves, Moaning Myrtle, Luna Lovegood and the Hogwarts Kitchen House Elves. The show first played at the Firehouse Theater in Fort Wayne, Indiana in September 2007, and since has performed in the United Kingdom and many U.S. states, and toured Australia.
From April 2008 through July 2009, the comedy troupe Luna-C Productions performed 'Potter Live in 45' at science fiction conventions in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States. In 45 minutes, the cast of Luna-C hit the high points of all seven books.
Sally Cotter and the Censored Stone, a parody written by Dean O'Carroll and published by Playscripts Inc. in April 2009, features Sally Cotter, a young girl who falls asleep while reading the series and wakes up at Frogbull Academy. During her dream, Sally meets characters such as Reubenon Ryebread, Shiftia Shape, and Professor Albatross Underdrawers. But with danger lurking, Sally, along with her friends Dave and Harmonica, must try to defeat the evil Lord Murderdeath with the constant interruptions from the Censor.
The sketch comedy group "Divine Comedy" from Brigham Young University has done multiple spoofs, most notably "Hillary Potter", "Harry Potter and the One Where Dumbledore Dies", and "Potter Wars."
The University of Otago student revue of 2008 parodied Harry Potter in sketches such as "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hellos", and in 2002, the show was entitled "Harry Pothead gets the Philosopher Stoned".
The Gaslight Theater in Tucson, AZ showed a parody titled Henry Porter and the Sorcerer's Secret from 3 September 2015 through late October or early November 2015. The tag line for the production was "The Boy Who Ad-Libbed".

Audio tracks
RiffTrax released parody audio commentaries of all eight Harry Potter films. RiffRaff Theater has also released a commentary of the first film.
Wizard People, Dear Reader, an audiobook that acts as an alternate soundtrack to the film version of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.

Other media

In 2002, the public art exhibition CowParade, which travels the world erecting cow-themed sculptures in major cities before selling them at auction for charity, erected a broomstick-riding Harry Potter cow in London's Leicester Square. When the organisers attempted to take it down, they were prevented by public outcry.
Jared Lee, an equestrian-themed T-shirt and home goods graphic company, has designed T-shirts showing a horse riding a broomstick and wearing a cape, with the words "Hairy Trotter" below the picture. These T-shirts have become popular and are sold through several major equestrian retailers.
Cows Ice Cream of Prince Edward Island, Canada, which is famous for making cow-themed parodies of many different works of popular culture, has a parody called Cowy Potter (also Dairy Potter), including "The Prisoner of Azcowban" and "The Goblet of Milk"
In Wacky Packages All-New Series 1, Hairy Patter is a parody of Harry Potter.
The clothing retailer Hanes has produced a shirt that reads "Harry Pothead and the Sorcerer's Stoned".
The Garbage Pail Kids All-New Series 1 card #40a, Harry Potty, is a parody of Harry Potter.
Harry Potthead is a Newgrounds flash game that shows Harry Potter using objects as bongs (including a pigeon, a squirrel, and a gun), as well as sniffing glue. The game is infamous for its visuals (which have an altered hue color), its music, and the fact that Harry is portrayed as stupid, smiling wide at the player. The object of the game is to do three of the actions, before choosing "Smoke A Gun", in which Harry shoots himself in the head. The game was developed and programmed by Tom Fulp, the creator of the website.

J. K. Rowling parodies

J. K. Rowling, the creator of the Harry Potter series, has been parodied several times:

Rowling made a guest appearance as herself on the American animated sitcom The Simpsons, in a special British-themed episode entitled "The Regina Monologues". The dialogue consisted of a short conversation between Rowling and Lisa Simpson, who mispronounces Rowling's name. She acknowledges Lisa with "Thank you, young Muggle". When Lisa asks her about the ending of Harry Potter, Rowling sighs and says: "He grows up, and marries you. Is that what you want to hear?" to which Lisa swoons and dreamily replies, "Yes!" before Rowling rolls her eyes and walks away.
Rowling is also parodied in an episode of Adult Swim's Robot Chicken, in which a character from the future travels through time in an attempt to completely destroy her chance at fame by giving Rowling a terrible idea for a novel: "A raccoon with an afro named Squiggles who shoots pixie dust from his bunghole".
Rowling appears as a wrestler on Celebrity Deathmatch, where she uses Harry Potter-style spells against Stephen King. It ends when she kills Stephen King through a lightning bolt manifested from the power of Voldemort. However, after he dies, King's robotic leg acts up and ends up killing Rowling.
On a couple of occasions, Craig Ferguson of The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson has done a sketch where he portrays J.K. Rowling as a power-hungry, money-obsessed individual. Once he portrayed her doing a talk show, similar to Oprah, and advertising Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: "It really moved me... into a bigger mansion. HAHAHAHA! I'M RICH! I'M RICH!".
In 2002, the Canadian newspaper National Post, in its satirical column Post Morten, wrote a spoof article claiming that:
"Rowling – or, as the article referred to and credited her, Mrs. J. K. Satan – said that as she sat in a coffee shop one grey day, wondering what to do with her empty, aimless life, it hit her: "I'll give myself, body and soul, to the Dark Master. And in return, he will give me absurd wealth and power over the weak and pitiful of the world. And he did!"
Like The Onion's article on Harry Potter and Satanism, this article too was copied into a chain letter and released as truth onto the web.
In one episode of the second series of Tracey Ullman's State of the Union, Tracey Ullman parodies J.K. Rowling as bossy and very keen on keeping her creations copyrighted, for example, she believes a hobo is impersonating Hagrid.
Author Maureen Johnson, has, on multiple occasions, parodied J. K. Rowling on her blog. She has described J. K. Rowling as a deranged, food-obsessed psycho who keeps Alan Rickman prisoner in her basement.
Rowling's propensity to make statements about the series' canon after the publication of Deathly Hallows – most notably, Dumbledore's sexuality – have led to internet memes in which Rowling supposedly confirms outlandish theories regarding the series; one such parody, in which CollegeHumor writers Willie Muse and Amir Khan doctored screenshots of Rowling's tweets to imply she stated Professors Flitwick and Sprout had previously been in a relationship, was accidentally reprinted in a Hufflepuff-themed version of Philosopher's Stone.
In 2019, a parody of Rowling was featured in the television film Island of Dreams by Harry Enfield, where she was played by Samantha Spiro.


================================================================================

# Places in Harry Potter

The fictional universe of Harry Potter contains numerous settings for the events in the novels, films and other media of the Harry Potter and the Fantastic Beasts series. These locations are divided into four main categories: residences, education, commerce, and government.

Residences

The Burrow

The home of the Weasley family is known as the Burrow. It is located outside the fictional village of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon, England, near the homes of the Lovegoods, the Diggorys and the Fawcetts. The Burrow is used as the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix in Deathly Hallows. The dilapidated house has seven floors and remains standing only through the use of magic.

Godric's Hollow
Godric's Hollow is a fictional West Country wizarding village where Lily and James Potter lived with their infant son Harry. It has been a home to Albus Dumbledore, Bathilda Bagshot and Godric Gryffindor, after whom it was named. At the centre of the village square is a war memorial that magically transforms into a monument to the Potter family. At the end of the main street are the remains of Harry's old home. In Deathly Hallows, Harry discovers that the Godric's Hollow cemetery where his parents are buried also contains the grave of Ignotus Peverell.

Little Hangleton

Little Hangleton is a fictional Muggle village in the north of England, roughly two hundred miles from Little Whinging. It contains the graveyard where Voldemort is restored to bodily form in Goblet of Fire. On a hill above the village is the former estate of the Riddle family, where Voldemort killed his father, his grandparents and the Muggle gardener Frank Bryce. Also nearby is the former home of the Gaunt family.

Malfoy Manor
Malfoy Manor is the home of Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy and their son Draco. The novel Order of the Phoenix states that the manor is located in Wiltshire. In Deathly Hallows, Voldemort uses Malfoy Manor as his headquarters and imprisons Luna Lovegood, Dean Thomas, Mr. Ollivander and Griphook in the basement. When Snatchers capture Harry, Ron, and Hermione, they are also imprisoned in the manor. Some of the Malfoy Manor scenes in the Harry Potter films were shot at Hardwick Hall in Derbyshire.

Number 4, Privet Drive

Harry is raised from infancy by his aunt Petunia Dursley and his uncle Vernon Dursley at Number 4, Privet Drive. The house is located in the fictional town of Little Whinging, which is south-west of London in the county of Surrey. Albus Dumbledore explains to Harry that when his mother sacrificed herself to save him, an ancient magic was created that protects Harry as long as he lives with Petunia, his mother's sister. Unbeknownst to Harry, his neighbour Arabella Figg is a Squib who was placed in Little Whinging by Dumbledore to keep an eye on Harry.
Scenes taking place at the Dursley residence in the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone were filmed at 12 Picket Post Close in the town of Bracknell. Filming for subsequent films took place on a set at Leavesden Film Studios, near Watford, Hertfordshire that proved to be cheaper than filming on location.

Number 12, Grimmauld Place
Number 12, Grimmauld Place is the London home of the Black family. In the fifth novel, it is selected as the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix. A house-elf named Kreacher inhabits the house. In Half-Blood Prince, Harry learns that he has inherited Number 12 from his deceased godfather Sirius Black, and he donates the property to the Order. In Deathly Hallows, the house becomes a sanctuary for Harry, Ron, and Hermione while they are hiding from Voldemort.

Shell Cottage

Shell Cottage is the home of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour after they get married. It overlooks a beach outside the fictional village of Tinworth in Cornwall. The cottage serves as a hiding place for Harry and his companions after they escape from Malfoy Manor in Deathly Hallows. After Dobby dies, Harry buries him in the cottage's garden. The scenes set at Shell Cottage in the film adaptations of Deathly Hallows were shot on Freshwater West beach in Wales.

Spinner's End
The house of Severus Snape is located in a fictional Muggle town called Spinner's End. The town first appears in Half-Blood Prince when Snape is visited there by Bellatrix Lestrange and Narcissa Malfoy. In Deathly Hallows, it is revealed that Snape lived in Spinner's End as a child, and that Lily Potter and Petunia Dursley lived in the same town.

Education

Beauxbatons

The Beauxbatons Academy of Magic is a French magic school. It is first introduced in Goblet of Fire when a delegation of students from Beauxbatons arrives at Hogwarts for the Triwizard Tournament. Beauxbatons is described as a boarding school located in the Pyrenees mountains. The school has a preponderance of French students, although students from Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Belgium also attend in large numbers. The headmistress of Beauxbatons is Olympe Maxime, and the school's champion in the Triwizard Tournament is Fleur Delacour. In the film adaptation of Goblet of Fire, all Beauxbatons students are female, while in the novel the school is co-educational. Beauxbatons translates from French as "beautiful sticks".
The depiction of French students in the Harry Potter series has been described as stereotypical by several scholars. Marek Oziewicz has called the Beauxbatons delegation "homogeneous" and lacking the cultural diversity of Hogwarts. Christina Flotmann claimed that the contrast depicted between Beauxbatons and Hogwarts functions as an allusion to a historical competition between the "sober and proper" England and the "immoral and decadent" France.

Castelobruxo
Castelobruxo ( ) is a Brazilian school of magic that specialises in Magizoology and Herbology. The exact location of the school is unknown, but it is said to appear to wizards as a golden temple, and to Muggles as nothing more than ruins. Castelobruxo is guarded by magical creatures called Caipora.

Durmstrang

The Durmstrang Institute for Magical Learning is a school that makes its first appearance in Goblet of Fire. Like Beauxbatons, Durmstrang sends a delegation of students to Hogwarts for the Triwizard Tournament. According to the Wizarding World website, Durmstrang is located in the "far Northern reaches of Europe". The school's headmaster is the former Death Eater Igor Karkaroff, and the novel reveals that Durmstrang students are instructed in the Dark Arts. Durmstrang is portrayed as an all-boys school in the film adaptation of Goblet of Fire, but is depicted as co-educational in the novel. In Deathly Hallows, it is revealed that the Dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald attended Durmstrang.
Several writers have commented on the depiction of the Durmstrang students. The British journalist Julia Eccleshare asserts that the Durmstrang delegation is depicted as dishonest and untrustworthy. Marek Oziewicz called Durmstrang a "medley of scary stereotypes" of Eastern Europe. Christina Flotmann wrote that the first appearance of the Durmstrang delegation links the school with "sinister literary tropes such as the Flying Dutchman." She also suggested that the name Durmstrang sounds dark and threatening. The name of the school is likely a play on the German phrase Sturm und Drang, meaning storm and stress.

Hogwarts

Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is a British school of magic. It is the primary setting for the first six Harry Potter novels.

Ilvermorny
Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is an American school of magic. It first appeared in a short story by J. K. Rowling in 2016, and was subsequently depicted in the film Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them. The school was founded in the seventeenth century by Isolt Sayre in Adams, Massachusetts. It is located on Mount Greylock and is concealed from non-magical people with enchantments. Like Hogwarts, Ilvermorny is divided into four houses. The Ilvermorny houses are Horned Serpent, Pukwudgie, Thunderbird and Wampus, each said to represent a different aspect of the ideal wizard.

Mahoutokoro
Mahoutokoro is the smallest wizarding school, and is located in Japan. Students wear enchanted robes which grow in size with the wearer. The robes change colour, from faint pink to gold, as the wearer increases their knowledge of magic. The students of Mahoutokoro are known for their academic prowess and skill at Quidditch. It is said that Quidditch was introduced to Japanese students when two Hogwarts students flew off-course during a typical flying routine.

Uagadou
According to the Wizarding World website, Uagadou is the oldest of several African wizarding schools, and the largest wizarding school in the world. It is located in the Mountains of the Moon in Uganda.

Koldovstoretz
Koldovstoretz is the Russian wizarding school.

Commerce

Diagon Alley

Diagon Alley is a shopping district in London that is accessible to wizards, but hidden from Muggles. It contains Gringotts Wizarding Bank and various types of shops.

Hogsmeade
Hogsmeade Village, or simply Hogsmeade, is a wizarding village located near Hogwarts. It primarily consists of a single thoroughfare called High Street, which contains shops, cafés and pubs. Hogwarts students who are in their third year or above are permitted to visit Hogsmeade on certain weekends.
Places in Hogsmeade

Dervish & Banges sells and repairs magical equipment.
Gladrags Wizardwear is a clothing shop full of quirky merchandise, including a selection of strange and unusual socks.
Honeydukes is a popular sweets shop. There is a secret passageway in the cellar that leads into Hogwarts.

Hogsmeade Station is a train station where the Hogwarts Express stops. Scenes depicting Hogsmeade Station in the Harry Potter films were filmed at Goathland railway station on the North Yorkshire Moors Railway. Extensive filming of the Hogwarts Express took place on the West Highland Line on the Glenfinnan Viaduct, located at Loch Shiel in Inverness-shire, Scotland.
The Hog's Head is a filthy pub owned by Aberforth Dumbledore. A few months before Harry was born, Sybill Trelawney uttered a prophecy in The Hog's Head which connected Voldemort and Harry. In Order of the Phoenix, the first meeting of Dumbledore's Army is held at The Hog's Head. During Deathly Hallows, Aberforth reveals a secret passage in the pub that leads into Hogwarts.
Madam Puddifoot's is a small teashop located on a side street. On Valentine's Day, floating cherubs throw pink confetti on visiting couples. In Order of the Phoenix, Harry and Cho Chang visit Madam Puddifoot's on Valentine's Day.
Scrivenshaft's Quill Shop sells stationery items such as quills, ink, parchment and envelopes.
The Shrieking Shack stands on the outskirts of Hogsmeade, with boarded-up windows and an overgrown garden. It was built as a hiding place for the werewolf Remus Lupin, then a Hogwarts student. He accessed the shack from a secret tunnel underneath the Whomping Willow on the Hogwarts grounds, and would stay there during his monthly transformations to avoid harming fellow students. Nearby villagers heard Lupin's howling and a rumour started that the shack was haunted by spirits.
The Three Broomsticks is an inn and pub known for its delicious butterbeer.
Zonko's Joke Shop sells joke and trick items.

Knockturn Alley
Knockturn Alley is described in the novels as a dark and seedy alleyway diagonal to Diagon Alley. Many of the shops in Knockturn Alley, such as Borgin and Burkes, are devoted to the Dark Arts. Objects that have appeared in Borgin and Burkes include a cursed opal necklace, a Hand of Glory, and a Vanishing Cabinet which is used by Draco Malfoy to infiltrate Hogwarts in Half-Blood Prince. Voldemort worked at Borgin and Burkes briefly during the 1940s. The shop is owned by Caractacus Burke and Mr. Borgin, though Mr. Borgin is the only owner to appear in the novels and films.

La Place Cachée
La Place Cachée or The Hidden Square, is a shopping district for wizards in Paris, near the River Seine. It is accessed via a portal in a brick pedestal under a verdigris bronze statue of a reclining woman. La Place Cachée appears in the film Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018).

The Leaky Cauldron
The Leaky Cauldron is described as a dark and shabby pub and inn, located on the Muggle street Charing Cross Road in London. It provides a way of entering Diagon Alley from the Muggle world. The rear of the pub opens onto a courtyard, in which a particular brick must be tapped three times to open a path to Diagon Alley.

Platform 9 ¾

The Hogwarts Express train departs from the fictional platform 9¾ at King's Cross railway station in central London. The platform is accessed by magically walking through a solid barrier between platforms 9 and 10. After the Harry Potter novels were published, Rowling found that she had confused the layout of King's Cross with that of Euston station. During production of the Harry Potter films, the St Pancras Renaissance London Hotel, which is part of St Pancras railway station, was used for King's Cross station.
A plaque depicting the supposed location Platform 9¾ was placed on a wall at King's Cross, along with a luggage trolley "stuck" halfway through the wall. A wrought-iron "Platform 9¾" gate used in the films is preserved at the National Railway Museum. After Alan Rickman's death in 2016, Harry Potter fans created a memorial to the actor at Platform 9¾. A Harry Potter–themed store is also located near the plaque.
There is a replica of King's Cross at The Wizarding World of Harry Potter themed area at Universal Orlando Resort. It features a wall between Platforms 9 and 10, which visitors can "walk through" to access Platform 9¾.

Government

Azkaban
Azkaban is a prison for criminals of the British and Irish wizarding world. According to Half-Blood Prince, Azkaban is located somewhere in the North Sea. It is guarded by Dementors, which render the inmates incapable of happiness. According to Sirius Black, many inmates simply stop eating and eventually die of starvation. It was considered impossible to escape from Azkaban until Sirius managed to do it. Performing any of the Unforgivable Curses on a human is punishable by a life sentence in the prison, although there are occasions when Aurors are allowed to perform those curses. Following Voldemort's demise, Kingsley Shacklebolt becomes Minister of Magic and ends the use of Dementors at Azkaban.

Erkstag
The Erkstag is a prison in Berlin that is supposedly closed, but is secretly being operated. It appears as a vast underground quarry with a spiral walkway leading down into its depths. It is inhabited by an enormous mother manticore who dissolves the bodies of prisoners and feeds them to her thousands of offspring.

Magical Congress of the United States of America
The Magical Congress of the United States of America (MACUSA) first appeared in the 2016 film Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them. It is the entity that governs the wizarding population of the United States, and is led by a President. It is located in a tower in the wizarding world—all within the same footprint as the Woolworth Building in Lower Manhattan, New York City—but is far larger on the inside, with a vast atrium and extensive basement levels.

Ministry of Magic

The Ministry of Magic is the government of the wizarding community of Britain and Ireland. The Fantastic Beasts series introduces a French and German Ministry of Magic, located in Paris and Berlin respectively.

Nurmengard Castle
Nurmengard is a prison that the Dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald built to incarcerate Muggles and enemies. After Albus Dumbledore defeated Grindelwald, the prisoners were released and Grindelwald himself was imprisoned in the top-most cell. In Deathly Hallows, Voldemort arrives at Nurmengard seeking information about the Elder Wand. When Grindelwald refuses to tell him anything, Voldemort kills him.

St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries
Located in London, St Mungo's Hospital treats witches and wizards who have suffered magical injuries or are infected by magical diseases. It also acts as a long-term asylum for those permanently disabled by magic or suffering from dangerous conditions, and it prevents them from being exposed to Muggles.


================================================================================

# Politics of Harry Potter

There are many published theories about the politics of the Harry Potter novels by J. K. Rowling, which range from them containing criticism of racism to anti-government sentiment. The books have been argued to contain both liberal and conservative themes and viewpoints. According to Inside Higher Ed, doctoral theses have been devoted to the Harry Potter books. There are also several university courses centred on analysis of the Potter series, including an upper division political science course.
Time magazine noted the political and social aspects of Harry Potter in their 2007 Person of the Year issue, where Rowling placed third behind politicians Vladimir Putin and Al Gore. Harry Potter's potential social and political impact was called similar to the 19th-century phenomenon of Harriet Beecher Stowe's popular, but critically maligned, book, Uncle Tom's Cabin, which fuelled the abolitionist movement leading up to the American Civil War.
When asked about the politics and message in Harry Potter, Rowling explained, "I wanted Harry to leave our world and find exactly the same problems in the wizarding world. So you have the intent to impose a hierarchy, you have bigotry, and this notion of purity, which is this great fallacy, but it crops up all over the world. People like to think themselves superior and that if they can pride themselves in nothing else they can pride themselves on perceived purity. [...] It wasn't really exclusively that. I think you can see in the Ministry even before it's taken over, there are parallels to regimes we all know and love." She also said, "You should question authority and you should not assume that the establishment or the press tells you all of the truth."
The Wall Street Journal compared Neville Chamberlain to Rowling's Cornelius Fudge, saying both were eager to help their constituents look the other way to avoid war. "Throughout the '30s, Chamberlain, fearing that Churchill was out for his job, conducted a campaign against his fellow Tory. Chamberlain tried evading war with Germany, and ridiculed Churchill as a 'warmonger'. He used The Times—the government's house organ—to attack Churchill and suppress dispatches from abroad about the Nazis that would have vindicated him." Rowling confirmed Chamberlain was her inspiration in the Spanish newspaper magazine XLSemanal.
Rowling also told the Dutch newspaper de Volkskrant that Voldemort was modelled on Hitler and Stalin, as a megalomaniac and paranoid figure, and that she was influenced by the Second World War, which is "anchored in all our minds". Discussing Draco Malfoy, she claimed, "Draco Malfoy does indeed stand for that type of boy. He wouldn't have killed Dumbledore, he couldn't. As long as things are imaginary, okay, but once it becomes reality, the thing becomes more difficult." She also stated, "No, that I gave him that light blonde hair is not because I wanted to make him into a scary Nazi. You give your characters the appearance that you find attractive; that is why I gave my hero dark hair, green eyes and glasses. I'm married to a man who looks like that."

Overview
Barratt's The Politics of Harry Potter (2012) argues that the Harry Potter books, while ostensibly fantasy, engage with real-world political issues and ideologies. Rowling explained, "I wanted Harry to leave our world and find exactly the same problems in the wizarding world.” Barratt finds that the works explore a wide range of real world issues which include:

Authoritarianism and fascism: A central theme Barratt identifies is the series' clear condemnation of authoritarianism and fascist policies, embodied by Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters. The books depict the dangers of pure-blood supremacy, discrimination, and the suppression of dissent, drawing parallels with historical and contemporary examples of totalitarian regimes.
Liberal democracy: Her books champion democratic values such as equality, tolerance, free speech, and the rule of law. The struggle against Voldemort is presented as a fight to preserve these values against those who seek to destroy them. The importance of institutions and fair processes is also highlighted, though not without acknowledging their flaws.
Social inequality and prejudice: Rowling's books address issues of social inequality and prejudice, particularly through the treatment of house-elves, werewolves, and other marginalised groups. The series critiques prejudice based on blood status of humans and inter-species prejudice.
The importance of resistance and activism: Barrett shows how Rowling emphasises the importance of resistance against tyranny and injustice. The characters in the series, particularly Harry and his friends, demonstrate the power of individual and collective action in challenging oppressive forces.
The books examine the basis of power, the control of information and the role of the media and explore themes of justice and punishment.
Some of the themes in the books are presented more ambiguously. For example, the Ministry of Magic is both bumbling, inefficient and corrupt, but also inhabited by key players, and with a layer of necessary legitimacy. This reflects a more nuanced understanding of real world power structures.

Racism and totalitarianism

Timothy Snyder in his book On Tyranny recommends reading The Deathly Hallows for its anti-totalitarianism in addition to classics from authors like George Orwell.
Analysts note the criticism of racism in J. K. Rowling's texts. When asked about the theme of racism and if her books have changed how people think, Rowling said, "I do not think I am pessimistic but I think I am realistic about how much you can change deeply entrenched prejudice, so my feeling would be that if someone were a committed racist, possibly Harry Potter is not going to have an effect."
After the publication of Deathly Hallows, Rowling responded to queries about metaphors in the books for ethnic cleansing: "Well, it is a political metaphor. But... I didn't sit down and think, 'I want to recreate Nazi Germany', in the—in the wizarding world. Because—although there are—quite consciously overtones of Nazi Germany, there are also associations with other political situations. So I can't really single one out." Rowling also compared her character Voldemort to paranoid megalomaniacs like Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin.
Rowling stated on her website that the Harry Potter phrases 'pure-blood', 'half-blood' and 'Muggle-born' compared to "some of the real charts the Nazis used to show what constituted 'Aryan' or 'Jewish' blood. I saw one in the Holocaust Museum in Washington when I had already devised the 'pure-blood', 'half-blood' and 'Muggle-born' definitions, and was chilled to notice the similarity."
Some commentators suggested that the portrayal of goblins in the books is modelled on anti-Semitism. In an article in the magazine Moment, Stephen Richer rejects this, noting that Rowling borrows a wide range of fantasy tropes, and saying, "Perhaps the goblin character has its origins in anti-Semitism, but Rowling can hardly be convicted of unjust commentary for using a now-familiar Western literary character." He points out that a deliberate anti-semitism would be at odds with Rowling's stated views and the themes of the books.
Aviva Chomsky (daughter of Noam Chomsky) in The Providence Journal suggests that Harry Potter is a parable on immigration rights, noting that US "immigration, citizenship and naturalization laws are based explicitly on discrimination on the basis of national origin. Where you were born, and what passport you carry, determine whether you have the right to come here, to visit, to work, or to live here."

Education versus indoctrination
Entertainment Weekly noted that the post-9/11 generation's "ideas about war, about leadership, about the dangers of consolidation of power and of dictatorship, about the importance of dissent, and about heroism and sacrifice, have been shaped at least in part by Rowling," and that their concept of freedom of speech has been influenced by Rowling's weathering of her books' everyday challenges.
Bill O'Reilly joined in the political fray over Harry Potter character Albus Dumbledore's outing by asking if it was part of a "gay agenda" to indoctrinate children. He called J. K. Rowling a provocateur for telling fans about Dumbledore's sexuality after the books were written. His guest, Entertainment Weekly Senior Editor Tina Jordan, called his "indoctrination" claims "a shallow argument", saying "indoctrination is a very strong word" because "we all know gay people, whether we know it or not." O'Reilly continued the following day, saying that the real problem was that Rowling was teaching "tolerance" and "parity for homosexuals with heterosexuals". His guest, Dennis Miller, said that tolerance was good and didn't think you could indoctrinate a child into being gay.
Zenit, a news agency dedicated to promoting the message of the Catholic Church, accused Rowling of betraying her readers by disclosing Dumbledore's sexuality and said that Rowling was the wealthiest woman in Britain thanks to the lack of political, social, or moral propaganda in her books. An op-ed said that one parent's perception of indoctrination was another's education, countering charges that Rowling promoted homosexuality in her books. Discussing the controversy, Rowling told the BBC that "Christian fundamentalists were never my base" and thought it ridiculous to question if a gay person could be a moral compass in the 21st century.
Discussing the values and morality of her characters Draco and Dudley, Rowling explained that both were indoctrinated with their parent's beliefs. "The moment Draco got what he thought he wanted, to become a Death Eater, and given a mission by Lord Voldemort, as he did in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, reality finally hit him," Rowling said, because his dream was "so very different". She said that there was a real moral cowardice to Draco, but that he was not wholly bad.

Evils of war
On the Harry Potter series, Rowling said on her United States book tour in October 2007, "I very consciously wanted to show what is one of the great evils of war, which is that totally innocent people are slaughtered... Another great evil of war is that children lose their families."

Progressive values and diversity
Time magazine said in 2005, "Rowling adapts an inherently conservative genre for her own progressive purposes. Her Hogwarts is secular and sexual and multicultural and multiracial and even sort of multimedia, with all those talking ghosts." To mark the French publication of Deathly Hallows, prominent French center-left paper Liberation devoted the front cover and two more pages to answering the question "Why Harry Potter is of the Left".
In 2007, responding to a question from a child about Albus Dumbledore's love life, Rowling revealed, "I always saw Dumbledore as gay." Filling in a few more details, she said, "Dumbledore fell in love with Grindelwald.... Don't forget, falling in love can blind us. [He] was very drawn to this brilliant person. This was Dumbledore's tragedy."
Melissa Anelli, webmaster of the fan site The Leaky Cauldron, told The Associated Press, "Jo Rowling calling any Harry Potter character gay would make wonderful strides in tolerance toward homosexuality.... By dubbing someone so respected, so talented and so kind, as someone who just happens to be also homosexual, she's reinforcing the idea that a person's gayness is not something of which they should be ashamed." Of the ensuing controversy, Rowling said, "I know that it was a positive thing that I said it, for at least one person, because one man 'came out' at Carnegie Hall." Entertainment Weekly's Mark Harris said "her choice to make a beloved professor-mentor gay in a world where gay teachers are still routinely slandered as malign influences was, I am certain, no accident." Harris also says that there is a drastic underrepresentation of gays in the population, and it is a failure of decency and nerve on the entertainment industry— "including the tremendous number of gay producers, writers, and executives who sacrifice their convictions so they don't look too strident or political."
Think Progress, a progressive news site, reported on several conservative blogs that said that Rowling's revelation about Dumbledore vindicates Jerry Falwell's attacks on homosexuality in children's media that were lambasted by the mass media. "What's stopping her from saying that [Harry's friend] Neville grows up to be a paedophile?" said David Baggett, an associate philosophy professor at Falwell's Liberty University's School of Religion. Baggett, who coauthored the book Harry Potter and Philosophy: If Aristotle Ran Hogwarts, says he was taken aback not only by Rowling's announcement, but by the fact that it came on the heels of her confirming many Potter fans' belief that the series had Christian themes.
Slate Magazine quotes an attendee of the book talk who said, "It was clear that JKR didn't plan to out Dumbledore. She just cares about being true to her readers." Mike Thomas of the Orlando Sentinel said that upon reflection, Dumbledore was gay from the beginning, and that this neatly explains the behaviour of his character and his relationship with Grindelwald. Thomas notes the skill Rowling displays in writing a gay character without having to put a gay label on him.
According to Reuters, Rowling was surprised over the fuss and declined to say whether her "outing" of Dumbledore might alienate those who disapprove of homosexuality. "It has certainly never been news to me that a brave and brilliant man could love other men. He is my character. He is what he is and I have the right to say what I say about him," she said. Reaction has been mainly supportive on fans' websites, such as The Leaky Cauldron and MuggleNet.
Actor David Thewlis (Remus Lupin) said that he was surprised about Dumbledore's sexuality, because while he was filming Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban director Alfonso Cuarón had the idea that "Lupin was gay, and he described my character like a 'gay junkie'."
Catholic fantasy author Regina Doman wrote an essay titled "In Defense of Dumbledore", in which she argued that the books actually support Catholic teaching on homosexuality because Dumbledore's relationship with the dark wizard Grindelwald leads to obviously terrible results, as he becomes interested in dark magic himself, neglects his responsibilities towards his younger sister and ultimately causes her death.
The South Florida Sun-Sentinel's book reviewer Chauncey Mabe says that it was wrong for Rowling to disclose Dumbledore's sexual orientation. Mabe was clear that this was not due to Dumbledore's being gay, but to his own objections to authors continuing to talk about their books after they are written. He called for Rowling to "please be quiet, please" in "public gatherings", which is contrary to the massive popularity of Rowling's book talks and her fans' thirst for more information about characters in the Harry Potter books. Mabe notes that 1,000 children attended the "reading" before they were given autographed books. Robin Berkowitz, Sun-Sentinel Entertainment Editor says of Rowling's comments, and other revelations she might make about her characters "We don't need to know any of them to appreciate the books fully," "Don't ask, don't spell" a reference to the US military's former policy on homosexuality, Don't ask, don't tell. These sentiments are mirrored by Jeffrey Weiss in his article, "Harry Potter and the author who wouldn't shut up", published in the Dallas Morning News.
The Washington Post's Michael Gerson says "tolerance is one of the main themes of the Harry Potter books. In a marvelous social comparison, lycanthropy is treated as a kind of chronic disease, with werewolves subject to discrimination as if they had AIDS."

Social activism
According to Philip Nel of Kansas State University, the Potter series can be seen as "political novels that critique racism and racial superiority. Rowling, who worked for Amnesty International, evokes her social activism through Hermione's passion for oppressed elves and the formation of her "Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare". Dobby the house elf has been compared to the labour lawyer Dobby Walker, who introduced Rowling's heroine, Jessica Mitford, to the Communist Party. Hermione is depicted as starting a campaign to emancipate the enslaved house elves, using the methods of real-world campaigns on social and political issues such as badges with slogans. She persists in this campaigning also when it is considered quixotic even by her close friends and not much appreciated even by most of the house elves themselves. But in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the campaign turns out to have had enormous unforeseen results, with house elves joining the struggle and making several indispensable contributions to Voldemort's final defeat, including saving the main protagonists' lives.

Subversive and anarchistic message
Gerson of the Washington Post also described what he considered to be the very subversive nature of the Harry Potter books in the answer they offer to death. Voldemort believes that death must be mastered and "beaten". In contrast, Harry accepts the necessity of his own death for the sake of love. Gerson also suggests that some will ask the book series about tolerance also be a book series about religion. He answers that many others "believe – not in spite of their faith but because of it – that half-bloods, werewolves and others should be treated with kindness and fairness. Above all, believers are called to love, even at the highest cost."
In a 1999 interview with Rowling, The Guardian Unlimited's Joanna Carey said, "JK Rowling is every bit as witty and subversive as you'd expect. Rowling described her admiration of Jessica Mitford since age 14, her time at Exeter University "not quite the chance to be the 'radical' I planned", and said the later books dealing with Harry's hormones, and deaths would be unlike other children's series like the Famous Five. When Carey suggested a parallel between Harry Potter and Prince Harry, Rowling laughed it off, saying that a friend warned her to "never let the press make you discuss the royal family."
James Morone wrote in the American Prospect in 2001, "Magical headmaster Albus Dumbledore practically awards bonus points for breaking rules. Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is unruly, even slightly anarchic. Harry's classmate Hermione 'had become a bit more relaxed about breaking the rules,' writes Rowling near the end of Philosopher's Stone, 'and she was much nicer for it.' There's more than a touch of anarchy when all the students sing to their own tune. In her books, the kids are the central agents of their own lives. They make choices. Weigh judgments. Wrestle with freedom."
Isabelle Smadja of Le Monde wrote that Harry Potter is the first fictional hero of the anti-globalist, anti-capitalist, pro-Third World, "Seattle" generation. She wrote that "Examination of the text suggests that they are, in fact, a ferocious critique of consumer society and the world of free enterprise."

Conservative objections to liberal and socialist values
The right-wing US John Birch Society has objected to Rowling's books and her public statements. In his article for the John Birch Society's magazine The New American, Constitution Party Communications Director Steve Bonta compared Harry Potter negatively to The Lord of the Rings, saying, "The Potter books read in places like diatribes against the modern middle class, especially whenever Harry confronts his ludicrously dysfunctional and downright abusive adopted family, the Dursleys."

Accusations of conservative and sexist themes
The critic Anthony Holden wrote in The Observer on his experience of judging Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban for the 1999 Whitbread Awards. His overall view of the series was negative—"the Potter saga was essentially patronising, very conservative, highly derivative, dispiritingly nostalgic for a bygone Britain." A review in The Guardian echoed this interpretation and stated that "despite all of the books' gestures to multiculturalism and gender equality, Harry Potter is a conservative; a paternalistic, One-Nation Tory, perhaps, but a Tory nonetheless."
When an interviewer suggested her books portrayed a conservative world, Rowling replied, "So I'm told repeatedly. The two groups of people who are constantly thanking me are Wiccans and boarding schools. And really, don't thank me. I'm not with either of them. New ageism leaves me completely cold, and [my daughter] would never go to boarding school. I went to a comprehensive."
Rowling says she gets frustrated with the "conservative world thing", and that she made Hogwarts a boarding school so that action could happen in the middle of the night and to create a sense of community among the characters. Harry also reflects the modern world, she argues, in that he is mixed race — his father being pure-blood, his mother being Muggle-born. She also says her feminist conscience is saved by Hermione, "who's the brightest character" and is a "very strong female character".

Neoliberal and capitalist values
Literary scholar Ilias Yocaris argued that Harry Potter "probably unintentionally ... appears as a summary of the social and educational aims of neoliberal capitalism." According to Yocaris' analysis, all life at Hogwarts is dominated by a culture of competition: "competition among students to be prefect; competition among Hogwarts houses to gain points; competition among sorcery schools to win the Triwizard tournament; and, ultimately, the bloody competition between the forces of Good and Evil." The free market plays a prominent and positive role, while the state (the Ministry of Magic) is presented as inefficient and bureaucratic. In this "pitiless jungle", education only aims to "give students an immediately exploitable practical knowledge that can help them in their battle to survive," while artistic subjects and social sciences are useless or absent. Yocaris concludes that "like Orwellian totalitarianism, this capitalism tries to fashion not only the real world, but also the imagination of consumer-citizens," producing literature that suggests that no alternative is possible. Michael Ostling also argued that the series depicts a modern capitalist and consumerist society, where the role of gadgetry is played by magic.

Class distinctions
O: The Oprah Magazine noted that Rowling admires Roddy Doyle and Jane Austen, saying "both of whom write about class distinctions," and asked if the reason Rowling wrote about class was a conscious decision. Rowling replied, "kids are acutely aware of money—before they're aware of class. A kid isn't really going to notice how another kid holds his knife and fork. But a kid will be acutely aware that he doesn't have pocket money. Or that he doesn't have as much pocket money. I think back to myself at 11. Kids can be mean, very mean. So it was there in Ron not having the proper length robes, you know? And not being able to buy stuff on the trolley. He's got to have sandwiches his mum made for him, even though he doesn't like the sandwiches. Having enough money to fit in is an important facet of life—and what is more conformist than a school?"

Anti-government interpretation
Libertarians Chris Van Landingham and Benjamin Barton see J. K. Rowling's portrayal of the bureaucratised Ministry of Magic and the oppressive measures taken by the Ministry in the later books (like making attendance at Hogwarts School compulsory and the "registration of Mudbloods" with the Ministry) as an allegory criticising the state. Barton says, "Rowling's scathing portrait of government is surprisingly strident and effective. This is partly because her critique works on so many levels: the functions of government, the structure of government, and the bureaucrats who run the show. All three elements work together to depict a Ministry of Magic run by self-interested bureaucrats bent on increasing and protecting their power, often to the detriment of the public at large. In other words, Rowling creates a public-interest scholar's dream—or nightmare—government."

Characters compared to George Bush, Tony Blair, and Saddam Hussein
Newsweek magazine asked Alfonso Cuarón, director of the third film (based on Rowling's Prisoner of Azkaban), if the villainous wizard Voldemort still reminded him of George W. Bush. Cuarón confirmed, "In combination with Saddam. They both have selfish interests and are very much in love with power. Also, a disregard for the environment. A love for manipulating people. I read books four and five, and Fudge is similar to Tony Blair. He's the ultimate politician. He's in denial about many things. And everything is for the sake of his own persona, his own power. The way the Iraq thing was handled was not unlike the way Fudge handled affairs in book four."
Philosopher Jean-Claude Milner claimed "Harry Potter is a war machine against the Thatcherite-Blairist world and the 'American Way of Life'" in France's Libération.
Slate Magazine also says Rowling takes jabs at the Bush and Blair administrations suggesting the Ministry of Magic's security pamphlet recalls the much-scorned Operation TIPS (Terrorism Information and Prevention System). The author also suggests that Azkaban, the wizard penitentiary, is a stand-in for Guantanamo Bay.
The People's World claimed the books draw you "into the politics of the wizarding world—the 'Educational Decrees' from the toad-like Ministry of Magic representative, the high-level connections of 'war criminals' from the last rise of Voldemort, the predjudice [sic] against 'mudbloods' and 'half-breeds.'" They suggest connections "to the world we live in, to the similarities and differences between the Fudge administration and the Bush administration".
Rowling has never confirmed these interpretations in Harry Potter; however, when the then Chancellor Gordon Brown once asked her to endorse the Labour Party while Tony Blair was Prime Minister, Rowling refused. Rowling attacked the Blair government's policy on single parent families. She said that Labour could do "a good deal more" and then donated £500,000 to the One Parent Families charity to set an example. Rowling said that Brown's measures for children 'would have made a real difference to my family's life' when she was poor. Rowling donated £1 million to the Labour Party during the 2010 general election.

Education reform in The Order of the Phoenix
The Scotsman cites "Delighted teachers who have hailed Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix as a blistering satire on years of politically motivated interference in the running of schools".
Rowling describes her character Dolores Umbridge, the Ministry-appointed headmistress of Hogwarts and under-secretary to the minister, Cornelius Fudge, saying "She has good contacts at the Ministry. She is one of those people, and they do exist in real life, who will always side with the established order. As far as she is concerned authority cannot be wrong so she doesn't question it, and I would go as far as to say that whatever happened and whoever took over at the Ministry, Umbridge would be there, she likes power. So she is going to side with the people who give her the authority."
Andrew Slack, founder of the Harry Potter Alliance, writes about the "Muggle Mindset" in which "Lindsay Lohan supersedes news about genocide, men assess their 'worth' by their paychecks, women's bodies are treated as commodities and our educational system preoccupies itself not with stimulating children's curiosity but rather getting them to efficiently regurgitate information on standardised tests."
Hungarian Secretary of State for Education Rózsa Hoffmann and her reforms received comparisons to Dolores Umbridge and her actions in the novels.

Anti-terrorism
The Capitalism Magazine website says that, "With a long-term war in progress and threats of further terrorist attacks on American soil," Harry Potter isn't mere escapism and "shows a world in which happiness can be achieved, villains can be defeated, and the means of success can be learned."
Time magazine says that by Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, "Harry is embroiled in a borderless, semi-civil war with a shadowy, hidden leader whose existence the government ignored until disaster forced the issue and who is supported by a secret network of sleeper agents willing to resort to tactics of shocking cruelty. The kids who grew up on Harry Potter—you could call them Generation Hex—are the kids who grew up with the pervasive threat of terrorism, and it's inevitable that on some level they'll make a connection between the two."
Slate Magazine's Julia Turner compares Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince to the war on terror in the context of the fight against Osama bin Laden saying Voldemort takes up terrorism by destroying bridges, murdering innocents, and forcing children to kill their elders. She also notes the parallels in the community's response saying Fred and George Weasley's shop makes a mint selling Shield Cloaks and the new Minister for Magic jails an innocent man, hoping to stave off panic and create the impression that he's taking action.
Steven Fielding argued that the changing portrayal of the Ministry of Magic – from incompetent to authoritarian – reflects Rowling's views on the war on terror.
Rowling said "I've never thought, 'It's time for a post-9/11 Harry Potter book,' no. But what Voldemort does, in many senses, is terrorism, and that was quite clear in my mind before 9/11 happened.... but there are parallels, obviously. I think one of the times I felt the parallels was when I was writing about the arrest of Stan Shunpike, you know? I always planned that these kinds of things would happen, but these have very powerful resonances, given that I believe, and many people believe, that there have been instances of persecution of people who did not deserve to be persecuted, even while we're attempting to find the people who have committed utter atrocities. These things just happen, it's human nature. There were some very startling parallels at the time I was writing it."

Harry Potter used by political activists

KidSPEAK!
In response to restricted access to the Harry Potter books children began a letter-writing campaign, forming clubs and organising petitions, which ultimately merged into an internet site called Muggles for Harry Potter. The site evolved into kidSPEAK!, a forum for children to tackle censorship in general, and to fight for Harry Potter specifically.

The Harry Potter Alliance

Andrew Slack, an actor/comedian and Harry Potter aficionado, co-founded the Harry Potter Alliance (HPA) to highlight the crisis in Sudan and social inequities. In These Times featured Slack in 2007, in an article about Muggle Activists where Slack said, "The Harry Potter parallel to Darfur is simple: With both the Ministry of Magic and the Daily Prophet (the Wizarding World's mainstream news source) in denial that Voldemort has returned and evil is afoot, Harry and his underground rebel group, 'Dumbledore's Army,' work with the adult group, 'The Order of the Phoenix,' to awake the world. We in the Alliance seek to be Dumbledore's Army for the real world, working with anti-genocide organisations, such as 'Fidelity Out of Sudan' and the 'Genocide Intervention Network,' to wake our governments, corporations and media up to the fact that 'never again' means 'never again.'"
When Time magazine asked about The Harry Potter Alliance, Rowling said, "It's incredible, it's humbling, and it's uplifting to see people going out there and doing that in the name of your character. What did my books preach against throughout? Bigotry, violence, struggles for power, no matter what. All of these things are happening in Darfur. So they really couldn't have chosen a better cause." Rowling awarded The Harry Potter Alliance a Fan Site Award in December 2007.
In February 2010, the HPA ran a massive fundraiser to support those in dire need after the tragic event of the Haiti earthquake. Live webcasts were held in which celebrities (especially those a part of the Harry Potter Fandom) performed and encouraged viewers to donate money. Donations came through an auction that did not guarantee you the prize. Some items that were up for bid were: a signed set of the Harry Potter books, a guitar signed by actor Tom Felton, handmade earrings from actress Evanna Lynch, and a one thousand word story about whatever the winner wishes it to be written by Maureen Johnson and John Green. The webcasts were rather successful, garnering over $125,000. The original plan of Helping Haiti Heal was to have three plane fulls of aid (each one dubbed: Harry, Hermione, and Ron) shipped off to Haiti. As of June the same year, five planes were sent to Haiti, Harry, Hermione, Ron, DFTBA (Don't Forget To Be Awesome) and the last being Dumbledore. On 28 June, there was a livestream video celebrating the landing of Dumbledore. Evanna Lynch was present at the stream and even answered questions asked by fans. Ophelia Dahl, the daughter of the late British author Roald Dahl was also present since she worked with Partners in Health, who the Harry Potter Alliance teamed up with for Helping Haiti Heal.
In March 2010, The Harry Potter Alliance had a campaign for people to send in their books to the Mississippi Delta which went to Rwanda. As of June, when the campaign ended, they donated over 40,000 books. In July 2010, The Harry Potter Alliance won $250,000 in the Chase Community Giving contest. The money will go towards literacy, LGBT rights, and online community building.

Stop Big Media
Stop Big Media gained support from "Rocking Out Against Voldemedia", a compilation of ten original songs by ten Harry Potter-themed "Wizard Rock" bands. Andrew Slack and The Harry Potter Alliance compare media consolidation in the US to the control of the Ministry of Magic over the Daily Prophet in the Harry Potter books, saying "Once Voldemort took over every form of media in the Wizarding World, Dumbledore's Army and the Order of the Phoenix formed an independent media movement called "Potterwatch". Now the HP Alliance and Wizard Rock have come together to fight for a Potterwatch movement in the real world to fight back against Big VoldeMedia from further pushing out local and foreign news, minority representation, and the right to a Free Press."

Center for Science in the Public Interest

A worldwide campaign to "save Harry Potter from the clutches of the Coca-Cola Company" was launched by the nonprofit Center for Science in the Public Interest. The group says that by aggressively marketing sugar- and caffeine-laden drinks to young fans of the Harry Potter series, Coke is helping fuel the childhood obesity epidemic.


================================================================================

# Puffs, or Seven Increasingly Eventful Years at a Certain School of Magic and Magic

Puffs, or Seven Increasingly Eventful Years at a Certain School of Magic and Magic is a 2015 original comedy play by New York–based playwright Matt Cox. The play is a parody of the Harry Potter book series by J. K. Rowling, but from the perspective of the "Puffs": that is, members of the Hogwarts house, Hufflepuff.
The play premiered at The People's Improv Theater on December 3, 2015. It moved to the Off-Broadway theater New World Stages in 2016. The show has been praised for its comedy and staging. It was nominated for the Off-Broadway Alliance Award for "Best Unique Theatrical Experience" in 2017.

Background
Cox told SyFy Wire that he was currently working on another show he had written and worked on with McCarthy called "Kapow – i GoGo", a play split into three parts that ran about 4.5 hours when put together about different nerdy cartoons, franchises, and "sci-fi stuff" (Cox's words). He tells reporter, Lisa Granshaw, that he came up with the idea for Puffs on a subway ride one night home. He thought to himself "it would've been really terrible to be another student at that particular magic school whenever Harry was there." The whole ride home, he thought about that idea and how every year something bad would happen all because of Potter. He then began to piece together some other ideas from '90s pop-culture references and funny movie flaws that could be an entertaining play. As he began to think about it more, he thought about how easy it would be to sell to "anyone who has never been destined to save the world" (words from the BroadwayHD description of the show).
"Soon after," he says, "we did a reading, which was fun to put together. We kept tweaking it until we moved from the People's Improv Theater to the Elektra and now New World Stages, and it's been a fun time." He told Granshaw that the hardest part about creating the show was to cram seven books, movies, and all the humor into a show that actually wouldn't run for five hours (a line said by the narrator at the beginning of the show). The next step was to make sure that all the characters were interesting and had depth.
Granshaw asked if the play having moved to several different locations changed staging and the play itself. Cox told her that it did because, as each theater grew in popularity, it also grew in size and stage space. He and McCarthy, of course, found it challenging to make it bigger and grander but remain exciting and interesting, therefore using the technique of the different doors.
When asked what it was like balancing the humor and serious bits of the show, Cox responded: "That was one of the most important things when we were developing the show, that it still had that sense of really true heart to it, just because, similar to what I was saying earlier, that way it doesn't just feel like a parody, which would have been very easy to do. That way it's something that sticks with you, that sense of heart. We all come from theater backgrounds, and it was the only way to make it feel like it was an actual story in the same way the books and movies are. The reason they've lasted this long is because there's so many relatable things and putting that in and having there be a reason this story is being told."

Productions

Off-Off-Broadway
Puffs opened on December 3, 2015, at the off-off-Broadway theater, The People's Improv Theater in New York City, New York, directed by Kristin McCarthy Parker and was scheduled to be just a five-night run. Co-produced by Stephen Stout and Colin Waitt, the production starred Zac Moon, Langston Belton, Julie Ann Earls, A.J. Ditty, Evan Maltby, Madeleine Bundy, Nick Carlillo, Jessie Cannizzaro, Stephen Stout, Eleanor Philips, and Andy Miller. The theater saw how well Puffs was doing and decided to extend the run. It ultimately ran for eight months.

Off-Broadway
In late 2015 during the very beginning of the performances, Tilted Windmills Theatricals under the direction of Tony-nominated producer David Carpenter decided to option the play from Matt Cox and ultimately produce Puffs as a commercial production at the off-Broadway Elektra Theater. The costumes were designed by Madeleine Bundy, the set and props were designed by Bundy and Liz Blessing, lighting was designed by Michelle Kelleher, sound was designed by Cox himself, and the production included original music by Brian (Hoes) Metolius.The cast remained the same except for Maltby, who was replaced by James Fouhey. The production also gained two swings, Jake Keefe and Anna Dart.
In May 2017, the building which the Elektra was in was condemned and the production was given three months to find a new home. David Carpenter ultimately decided to transfer the production to the preeminent off-Broadway theatre complex New World Stages for an open-ended run on their Stage 5. The show transferred to the theater on July 17, 2017, with the same cast, designs, and direction from the Elektra, with the exception of Blessing, leaving Bundy in charge of scenic, costume, and prop design. The production ran until August 18, 2019. Puffs broke every record at Stage 5 including, highest single day sales, highest advance, highest weekly sales and longest tenant in the theatre.
In late May 2018, Fathom Events announced that they would be broadcasting a live filming of Puffs live in theaters around the world for two nights. The recording was later uploaded to BroadwayHD, iTunes, Amazon and Google Play.

Subsequent productions
In April 2019, Puffs announced a new production at The Entertainment Quarter in Sydney, Australia. Lauren McKenna directed and also played Leanne. The Sydney show included re-worked designs by Bundy, Goldman, Cox, and Metolius. It opened on May 17 and included G-rated Saturday and Sunday matinees. It closed on June 30, 2019.
The Canadian premier of Puffs opened on June 7, 2019, at The Lower Ossington Theatre in Toronto, Canada, directed by Seanna Kennedy, stage-managed by Alyssa Obrigewitsch, and produced by Joseph Patrick. It featured set design by Michael Nicholas Galloro, costume design by Rachelle Bradley, and lighting design by Mikael Kangas. It closed on August 4, 2019.
A Mexican version is scheduled to open in 2022 in Saltillo, Mexico, by Cuarta Pared Teatro as the first version to be performed in Latin America.

Synopsis

Act 1
A Narrator addresses the audience and begins to tell a tale about a young, orphaned boy with a scar in the shape of a lightning bolt, but dismisses the boy's story to introduce another orphan named Wayne who lives with his uncle Dave in New Mexico. One day, an owl drops a letter in Wayne's living room telling him that he has been invited to "a certain school of magic." His uncle quickly tells him that his parents were wizards before rushing him to the train station. Wayne is then taken to the magic school and finds himself in a sorting ceremony in which students are sorted into different houses: "Braves," "Smarts," and "Snakes". Wayne tells another student how nervous he is and how he believes he could become a hero. The student is revealed to be the orphan boy from the beginning who is then sorted into the Braves house. The hat sorts Wayne in the "Puffs" category.
The Puffs introduce themselves in the Puffs common room. Megan declares that she was put into the Puffs house mistakenly and that she doesn't belong with the other Puffs. "Cedric" shows up and introduces himself as the group leader. He assures the group that they are a valid house, though they will be bullied. He encourages them to win third place in the Puffs' first House Cup by earning points for good behavior. Megan brags to Wayne and Oliver that her mother was known to have worked with the Dark Lord before sneaking out to be with the Snakes. Wayne and Oliver bond over both being new to the school and magic itself, and Oliver, a math prodigy, worries about the difficulty of magic. After a day of unsuccessful classes and many lost points, Wayne begins to lose hope. During the appearance of a troll in the dungeon during the school's Halloween feast, Wayne and Oliver notice that Megan is missing. They find her wandering around a forbidden chamber with her ghost friend, the Fat Friar. She complains about being alone. The Narrator introduces Megan's mom, Xavia Jones, who was put in WizPriz for working with the Dark Lord. Megan is hostile before agreeing to be friends with Wayne and Oliver. Before they leave, they all look into a mirror where they see their greatest desires. Wayne sees that he becomes a hero, Oliver becomes a famous mathematician, and Megan sees her mom and herself reuniting. Megan tells a teacher that Wayne and Oliver came to save her and the trio is awarded their first set of points. Sometime later, Cedric thanks Wayne for inspiring the Puffs to earn more points. At the end of the year, the headmaster announces that the Puffs came in third place and they celebrate, before the headmaster awards more points to the Braves so that the Puffs end up in fourth place again.
The Narrator introduces the second year, where a giant snake attacks the whole school. On Halloween, Wayne and Megan tell Oliver that a secret chamber has been opened and that the snake is inside. The defense teacher takes matters into his own hands and begins a dueling club. He selects "Blondo Malfoy" and Mr. Potter to practice dueling. After Malfoy casts a spell, it is revealed that Potter can talk to snakes. J Finch worries about dying, but leaves the room despite advice and is petrified when he sees the snake in the hallway. Wayne suggests that he kill the monster himself and become the hero of the school. He meets Ginny and develops a crush. Later, Harry kills the snake and everyone goes home for the summer.
In year three, Megan tells her friends that a masked murderer is in the school and that she thinks it's Xavia, coming to rescue her. She decides to spend time with the Braves to increase her chances. Leanne invites everyone to her slumber party and Sally, believing that Wayne and Oliver are throwing it, flirts with them. She takes off her glasses to get a clearer look at the invitation, and the boys quickly find her attractive. Cedric begins to tell the Puffs a bedtime story about how the magic school and the houses were founded, but before he gets to the Puffs, the headmaster calls for lights out. The trio remains awake and Megan reveals that she feels like a disappointment. On their field trip the next day the Puffs get drunk on Butterbeer.
In year four, the school holds a special three wizard tournament with two neighboring schools. Names are drawn from a cup to decide who will participate. Cedric's name is drawn but the Puffs' excitement is quickly halted when Potter's name is drawn as well. Wayne gives Cedric a book featuring different kinds of creatures he might have to face during the tournament. In the first challenge, the student must take the golden egg from a dragon's lair. Cedric uses one of Wayne's spells and comes in second place, just behind Potter. Cedric approaches Wayne with the prize from the challenge; Wayne helps him solve the egg's riddle. Wayne tells Cedric that he thinks the most while taking a bath. In the bathtub, Cedric encounters Myrtle and they figure out that the second challenge will be mermaids. Oliver and Megan go to a Christmas ball together where they awkwardly attempt to have fun. The Puffs attend the second challenge, which proves to be quite boring, but Cedric wins and they celebrate. When Wayne struggles with a spell, Cedric tells him that the best he can do is try. Cedric also promises to teach Wayne all the magic he knows after the third challenge. At the third challenge, the Puffs see Cedric emerge victorious, before realizing he is dead. The Narrator stops the show and gives the audience an intermission.

Act 2
The Narrator begins the act where it left off. Cedric died during the final tournament challenge. In year five the Puffs are still mourning, but make a promise to not be "too sad." However, a drunk Wayne enters, yelling that there is no purpose in attending school without Cedric to guide them. Some of the Puffs have been inducted into Albus' Army. At the end of the year, Megan and Oliver kiss for the first time and reconcile their friendship with Wayne. It is announced that the Dark Lord has returned and that nobody is safe. In the Dark Lord's lair, he and Xavia are planning to steal Megan from the school and destroy Potter.
At the start of year six, Wayne is hoping to get a girlfriend and get onto the sports team. However, at the sports tryouts the rude coach, Zach Smith, declines all the Puffs. Sally attempts to flirt with Wayne and he agrees to go on a date with her. Megan follows directions from a note she thought was written by Oliver, but it turns out that Xavia wrote the note and took Megan hostage. Oliver and Wayne get caught as well, and Xavia tells Megan that she must kill Wayne and Oliver first before they can leave. Megan can't bring herself to kill them; Xavia calls her "nothing but a Puff" and a disgrace to the Dark Lord. Xavia begins to cast a death spell to kill all of them but gets the spell wrong several times. Megan realizes that her mother isn't as evil or capable as she seems. Xavia accidentally releases the trio and they fight her. She vows that they will regret this and vanishes. Megan realizes that deep down, both she and her mother are just Puffs but begins to accept who she truly is. They stop by the mirror they looked at in year one; their other wishes have vanished and their only wish is to remain friends forever.
During the summer, Oliver tells his friends that, for his safety as a "Mug Born," he will not be returning to the magic school for their final year. Wayne and Megan find it very hard to get on without him. When Potter returns to fight the Dark Lord and the Puffs all rush to him. Mr. Voldy tells everyone to bring him Harry or that there will be consequences over the school's loudspeaker. Potter runs off and the Puffs debate what to do. They come to the consensus that they can't fix anything because they are "just Puffs" so decide to go home. Leanne steps up to tell the group that they still matter at the school; everyone agrees to fight with Potter. Oliver shows up to help his friends. Xavia also sneaks in, now prepared to kill Megan. She accidentally kills one of Voldy's fighters and immediately feels guilty for it. She accepts that she is just a Puff and gives Megan her wand. Sally, J Finch, and Leanne are killed during the battle and the trio goes to help them. Voldy, thinking Wayne is Harry, kills him. Wayne awakens in a white train station with the headmaster, who died in the end of year six. Wayne realizes that he died in the battle and complains to the headmaster that his life was useless. The headmaster counters that Wayne was the hero in his own story. Wayne finally accepts his fate and the Narrator closes out the story, informing the audience that Harry killed Voldy and was once again hailed as the hero of the school. But before he lets the audience leave, he takes them to one final destination, nineteen years after the battle.
A now grown-up Megan walks through a train station where she meets with her husband, Oliver. They panic before they find their son wandering around. The boy is revealed to be the Narrator, now twelve years old and named Wayne. His parents tell him that while the school may be scary and dangerous, he is named after one of the bravest students ever, and they send him off on the train. Oliver asks Megan what house she thinks he'll be placed in and she tells him, "I have a pretty good idea." Wayne is seen in the sorting ceremony where a hat is placed on his head. After hearing what house he's been placed in, he looks out to the audience and smiles.

Casts and characters

Lead characters
Wayne Hopkins; a nerdy orphan wizard boy from New Mexico.
Oliver Rivers; a mathematician wizard from New Jersey.
Megan Jones; daughter of the infamous Xavia Jones who thinks she should be in the Snakes house.
Narrator; The one with all the heavy books.
Cedric; the lead Puff at the magic school.
Mr. Voldy; an evil and dark lord who wants to take over the school and kill Harry.
Mr. Potter; a famous student in the Brave house who kills magical beasts and constantly steals opportunities from the Puffs.
Susie Bones; a Puff who lives in fear of death, because her entire family died.
J Finch Fletchley; a flamboyant and happy Puff.
Sally Perks; She goes to school here and is completely blind throughout half the show
Ernie Mac; a very confident and self-obsessed Puff.
Hannah; a shy Puff who gets made fun of by the other houses and does not realize what is happening.
Leanne; a Puff who grew up as an only child, has never seen other children until now and wants to be friends with everybody.

Other characters

Critical reception
The New York Times's Laura Collins-Hughes wrote: "The fun of Puffs, though, is in its intersections with the story we know from J. K. Rowling's books and the movie adaptations. The one Puff with any panache is Cedric Diggory, played by Evan Maltby with such lovable good-guy warmth that when he dies, in an episode the narrator (A. J. Ditty) calls "Year Four: The Puffs and the Year They Mattered", it's actually rather sad. (Again: You didn't already know that Cedric dies? Not the show for you.)"
Diane Snyder from Time Out says: "But even Potter virgins will enjoy the show's witty wordplay and well-executed physical comedy. At times, the pacing is so frenetic that jokes can't find a place to land, but there's heart as well as humor here."
Theasy.com wrote: "Puffs wisely avoids special effects or high-tech gadgetry—the show begins with an overhead projector!—and instead uses inventive movement and plenty of (theatrical) magic."
Jade Kops of BroadwayWorld said: "Cox cleverly highlights the flaws in the books and the movies and neatly skirts around the Potter/Gryffindor centric storyline that everyone knows by not even presenting Ron and Hermione as real people. Professors are presented with enough recognizable traits to not require names to be used and events easily tie together for well versed fans."
Matt Windman from the theater critic's site AM New York wrote: "By the end, Puffs comes to resemble a Saturday Night Live skit that has gone on way too long, feeling rushed in its storytelling and long-winded in its execution. Many jokes fail to land, and the humor may be too tame for its own good... Nevertheless, Puffs offers a good deal of harmless fun and manages to embrace a cute riff on a popular franchise."

Awards and nominations

Off-Broadway production


================================================================================

# Quidditch

Quidditch () is a fictional sport invented by author J. K. Rowling for her fantasy book series Harry Potter. It first appeared in the novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997). In the series, Quidditch is portrayed as a dangerous but popular sport played by witches and wizards riding flying broomsticks.
Matches are played on a large oval pitch with three ring-shaped goals of different heights on each side, between two opposing teams of seven players each: three Chasers, two Beaters, the Keeper, and the Seeker. The Chasers and the Keeper, respectively, score with and defend the goals against the Quaffle; the two Beaters bat the Bludgers away from their teammates and towards their opponents; and the Seeker locates and catches the Golden Snitch, whose capture simultaneously wins the Seeker's team 150 points and ends the game. The team with the most points at the end wins.
Harry Potter plays as Seeker for his house team at Hogwarts. Regional and international Quidditch competitions are mentioned throughout the series. Aspects of the sport's history are revealed in Quidditch Through the Ages, published by Rowling on 12 March 2001 to benefit Comic Relief.
A real-life version of the game has been created, in which the players use brooms, but run instead of flying.

Development
Rowling came up with the sport in a Manchester hotel room after an argument with her then-boyfriend. She explained: "I had been pondering the things that hold a society together, cause it to congregate and signify its particular character and knew I needed a sport." Rowling claims that the word "Quidditch" is not derived from any particular etymological root but was the result of filling five pages of a notebook with different words beginning with "Q".
Despite the sport's popularity with fans, Rowling grew to dislike describing the matches. She commented in an interview:

To be honest with you, Quidditch matches have been the bane of my life in the Harry Potter books. They are necessary in that people expect Harry to play Quidditch, but there is a limit to how many ways you can have them play Quidditch together and for something new to happen.
The final Quidditch scene in the books appears in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. Rowling experienced "fiendish glee" writing this scene, which features memorable commentary by Luna Lovegood.
Quidditch is introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and is a regularly recurring feature throughout the first six books. It is depicted as being played by both professionals (as in tournaments like the Quidditch World Cup) and amateurs. A major motif of five of the Harry Potter books is the competition among the four Hogwarts houses for the Quidditch Cup each school year – in particular, the rivalry between Gryffindor and Slytherin.
In 2014, Rowling started publishing a series of match reports from the Quidditch World Cup on Pottermore, culminating in a short story about the final featuring the return of Harry, Ron, Hermione and their friends as adults. This generated interest from several media outlets, as it was the first new writing about the Harry Potter characters since the end of the series in 2007.
Rowling published Quidditch Through the Ages in 2001 to benefit Comic Relief; Quidditch Through The Ages Illustrated Edition was published in 2020, with banners being presented to 11 towns in the UK and Ireland that in the books have Quidditch teams, including the Ballycastle Bats, Falmouth Falcons, Holyhead Harpies, Montrose Magpies, Pride of Portree and Wigtown Wanderers; two teams based in fictional places, the Chudley Cannons and Puddlemere United, were also celebrated.

Game progression

Quidditch matches are played over an oval-shaped pitch, with a scoring area at each end consisting of three hooped goal posts, each at a different height. Each team is made up of seven players, consisting of three Chasers, two Beaters, one Keeper and one Seeker.
The job of the Chasers is to keep possession of the scarlet Quaffle, a leather ball passed between fellow chasers. They must attempt to score goals (worth 10 points) by throwing it through one of the opponents' three hoops. These hoops are defended by the opposing team's Keeper, who tries to block their goals and throw the  "Quaffle" to fellow chasers.
Meanwhile, players of both teams are attacked indiscriminately by the two Bludgers. These are round, jet-black balls made of iron that fly around violently trying to knock players off their brooms. It is the Beaters' job to defend their teammates from the Bludgers; they carry short wooden clubs, which they use to knock the Bludgers away from their teammates and/or toward the opposing team.
Finally, the role of the Seeker is to catch the Golden Snitch. This is a small golden ball the approximate size of a walnut. The winged Snitch is enchanted to hover, dart, and fly around the pitch rapidly, avoiding capture while remaining within the boundaries of the playing area. A Seeker catching the Snitch ends the game and scores the successful Seeker's team an additional 150 points (15 goals). As the team with the most points wins, this often guarantees victory for the successful Seeker's team. A notable exception is when Bulgaria Seeker Viktor Krum catches the Snitch for Bulgaria during the World Cup Final in Goblet of Fire, while his team are still 160 points behind Ireland (their opponents), thus making his own team lose by only 10 points.

Broomsticks

Broomsticks are one of the forms of transportation for wizards and witches and are also used for playing Quidditch. The three most prominent broomsticks in the books are the Nimbus 2000, Nimbus 2001, and the Firebolt, all three of which have been produced as merchandise by Warner Bros.
The Nimbus is introduced as one of the best broomsticks in the wizarding world. Harry receives a Nimbus 2000 in Philosopher's Stone so that he can play for Gryffindor house. In Chamber of Secrets, Lucius Malfoy buys a full set of the more advanced Nimbus 2001s for the Slytherin team as a bribe, so they would choose his son Draco as Seeker that year.
The Firebolt later supersedes the Nimbus as the fastest and one of the most expensive racing brooms in existence. Harry receives a Firebolt model from his godfather, Sirius Black, after his Nimbus 2000 is destroyed during a Quidditch match in Prisoner of Azkaban. In Goblet of Fire, Harry uses his Firebolt to escape the Hungarian Horntail during the Triwizard Tournament.

Films and video games
Quidditch appears in five of the eight Harry Potter films. Some Quidditch subplots, such as Ron's Keeper storyline in Order of the Phoenix, were cut to save time in the films. Video games that feature Quidditch include:

Main series' video game adaptions:
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter: Quidditch series
Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup
Harry Potter: Quidditch Champions
Lego Harry Potter series
Lego Harry Potter: Years 1–4
Lego Harry Potter: Years 5–7
In the Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey attraction in the Wizarding World of Harry Potter at the Islands of Adventure theme park, Quidditch is featured near the end where riders are flown through the Quidditch pitch. A storefront near Ollivanders Wand Shop is themed as a Quidditch supply with a Golden Snitch on the sign and a case containing animated Quaffle and Bludgers surrounded by Beaters' bats.

Reception
According to David K. Steege, the books "follow very closely the school story tradition of making games and sports central to the boarding school experience; some of the most vivid and popular scenes in the series take place on the playing field".
However, some critics have claimed that Rowling's presentation of Quidditch reinforces gender inequality. For example, Heilman and Donaldson argue that the female players ultimately have little impact on the outcome of the game, and it has also been noted that the female players on the Gryffindor Quidditch team have very few lines. This view has been disputed by Mimi R. Gladstein, who points to the presence of female players on the victorious Irish team at the Quidditch World Cup. She argues: "The inclusion of female Quidditch players at the highest level of the sport is done without a trace of self-consciousness and their inclusion isn't an issue within the minds of the characters." On the other hand, D. Bruno Starrs notes Quidditch's rarity as a sport in which males and females compete against each other, and describes it as "levelling" the genders.
Quidditch has been criticised for its emphasis on catching the Snitch. Rowling claims that Quidditch is a sport that "infuriates" men in particular, who are bothered by the unrealistic scoring system. Because of the emphasis on the Snitch, legal scholar William Baude called Quidditch "a really stupid game".

Non-fictional Quidditch

In the real world, the word "Quidditch", long predating Harry Potter, occurs in some English placenames, and seems to come from Anglo-Saxon cwǣð-dīc = "mud-ditch".
A street in Lower Cambourne, Cambridgeshire, England is named Quidditch Lane, supposedly after a type of nearby dry ditch called a Quidditch. Fans have been known to visit the area.
In November 2014, a plaque appeared outside the entrance of Bristol Children's Hospital attesting that the famous hooped sculptures which stand in front of the paediatric institution are, in fact, not a 50-foot-tall (15 m) interactive installation inaugurated in 2001, but instead the goalposts used in the 1998 Quidditch World Cup.
In 2017, "Quidditch" was defined by Oxford Dictionaries, following the inclusion of "Muggle" in the third (2003) edition of the Oxford English Dictionary. Oxford Dictionaries associate editor Charlotte Buxton explained that Quidditch had gained recognition beyond the books, pointing to its existence as a real-life sport.

As a real-life sport

In 2007, the United States Quidditch Association, back then named the Intercollegiate Quidditch Association (or I.Q.A.), was founded to regulate quidditch in the United States and abroad, a very popular sport amongst college students. According to the International Quidditch Association, the current international governing body of the sport, the original rules and regulation of the popular collegiate sport known as quidditch were formed "... on a sunny Sunday afternoon in 2005 by Xander Manshel and Alex Benepe, students at Middlebury College in Vermont, US". In contrast to the fictional sport, the game is played on foot while using one hand to hold a broom between the legs.
Since 2005, many American schools, such as UC Berkeley, have added Quidditch to their list of team sports. In the United States, college teams compete in their respective regions and compete in an annual national tournament, last year held in Texas and won by The University of Texas over runner-ups, The University of California, Berkeley (Cal Quidditch). The sport has since then spread across more than 25 countries and includes multiple international tournaments, including a World Cup. In 2012, the International Quidditch Association held the IQA World Cup, then named the IQA Summer Games, as the torch was passing through Oxford, UK for the Summer Olympics.
Gameplay is based on the description in the books, films, and game adaptations, though the sport has been adapted to suit real-world constraints. Quidditch is still evolving to suit safe play for the members of the teams, male and female. Apart from joining teams registered with their national governing body, individuals are also able to become an official certified referee to officiate tournaments and games throughout the year as teams compete to take part in various national and international tournaments. As the oldest national governing body, USQ has hosted a grand total of ten US Quidditch Cups as of 2017.
In the United Kingdom, the Quidditch Premier League is played between 10 teams, split between the North and South divisions. In 2017, West Midlands Revolution won the QPL.
In response to allegations of J. K. Rowling's anti-trans positions, and Warner Bros.' ownership of the word "Quidditch", US Quidditch and Major League Quidditch announced in 2022 that they were renaming the sport "Quadball".


================================================================================

# Remus Lupin

Remus Lupin is a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series written by J. K. Rowling. He first appears in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. Lupin remains in the story following his resignation from this post, serving as a friend and ally of the central character, Harry Potter. In the films, he is portrayed by David Thewlis as an adult, and James Utechin as a teenager.

Fictional character biography
Lupin is a half-blood, born, according to the series, to wizard Lyall Lupin and his Muggle wife Hope Howell on 10 March 1960. He was bitten by the vicious werewolf Fenrir Greyback when he was a small child, and became infected with lycanthropy; the condition being incurable, he was doomed to live his life as a werewolf. Lupin and his parents feared he would be unable to attend Hogwarts, but headmaster Albus Dumbledore allowed him to enroll—provided certain protective measures were taken. A house was built in Hogsmeade with a secret passage leading to it from under the Whomping Willow. Lupin was smuggled into and confined in this house for his monthly transformations. The transformation from human to werewolf is difficult and painful, and if the creature is isolated, it will become frustrated and harm itself if unable to attack. The villagers mistook Lupin's howling as extremely violent ghosts. The house was dubbed "the Shrieking Shack" and became known as the most haunted building in Britain. Although it was never actually haunted, Dumbledore promoted this rumour to discourage curious villagers from exploring.
When Lupin started Hogwarts, his condition was kept secret, but James Potter, Sirius Black and Peter Pettigrew deduced the truth in their second year. By their fifth year, they secretly and illegally learned how to become Animagi to keep Lupin company during his transformations. His lycanthropy was not transmittable to them in their Animagus forms, nor was he a threat to them while they were animals. Additionally, James and Sirius' Animagi, a stag and a large dog, were large enough to control a werewolf. His friends nicknamed him "Moony" for his condition. When Severus Snape became curious about where Lupin disappeared to each month, Black played a prank on him in their sixth year. Sirius told Snape where Lupin went every month, although he neglected to mention he was a werewolf and knew Snape could be killed if he approached Lupin in his transformed state. Snape, determined to get them in trouble, followed Sirius' directions. When James learned what Sirius did, he stopped Snape before he reached the Shrieking Shack, saving his life. Snape, however, had seen Lupin in werewolf form and was sworn to secrecy by Dumbledore. Snape never forgave Sirius and believed James' only motive in foiling the plan was to avoid expulsion from Hogwarts.
In an interview, J. K. Rowling said Lupin has a desire to be liked, "because he's been disliked so often." Lupin's main failing is, "he's always so pleased to have friends, so he cuts them an awful lot of slack." In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Sirius said Lupin was the "good boy," and Rowling says he was the "mature" one. According to Sirius, Lupin did not participate in his and James' bullying, but Lupin regrets never having told them to stop. He is also one of the co-creators of the Marauder's Map, which later falls into Harry Potter's ownership.
Lupin loathes and fears his monthly transformations: when he faces boggarts, they take the form of a globular full moon. These transformations became less severe in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, when the Wolfsbane Potion provided by Snape allowed him to have some control over them, and to retain his mind.

Name etymology
This character's name is a clear example of Rowling's use of descriptive names for her characters, settings and other story elements. His first name, "Remus," is an allusion to Romulus and Remus, the legendary twin founders of Rome, who as infants were cared for by a she-wolf.  Lupin borrows the name of the other twin, "Romulus," as a nom de guerre in Book 7.
His last name, "Lupin," recalls the English word "lupine" (meaning "characteristic of or relating to wolves"), which in turn is derived from Latin lupus ("wolf"). In the folklore of northern France, lupin is also the term used to refer to a type of werewolf, noted for its shyness (in contrast to the more aggressive and violent loup-garou).  "Lupin" is also the name of a genus of flowering plant.

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Remus Lupin first appears in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999), as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor at Hogwarts. He is first seen on the Hogwarts Express, asleep, and "looked as if one good curse would be able to finish him off". However, when Dementors appeared in the train, Lupin finally wakes up "holding what seemed to be a handful of flames". At the end of the year, Severus Snape, furious over Sirius Black's escape and his resultant loss of the Order of Merlin promised to him by Cornelius Fudge, made public that Lupin was a werewolf, whereupon Lupin resigned in anticipation of the public outcry against a werewolf teaching at Hogwarts. During his tenure, he gave Harry private lessons in casting the Patronus Charm, the only known means of defence against Dementors. His students, excepting a few from Slytherin, held him in extremely high regard and loved his hands-on teaching style. Harry and his friends considered him to have been their best Defence teacher.
Until the climax of Prisoner of Azkaban, Lupin believed Sirius Black was guilty of murdering 12 Muggles, betraying Lily and James Potter, and killing Peter Pettigrew. He eventually discovered the truth — that Sirius was innocent, and the very much alive Peter was the traitor. He helped Sirius to explain the truth to Harry, Ron and Hermione in the Shrieking Shack, and they all confronted Peter, who had been disguised for the previous twelve years as Ron's pet rat, Scabbers. However, Remus had forgotten to take the Wolfsbane potion, which prevented him from becoming violent while a werewolf. While Harry, Ron, and Hermione were distracted by Lupin, Peter assumed his Animagus form and escaped. Lupin later resigned from Hogwarts after Snape exposed his werewolf condition.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Lupin reappears as an Order of the Phoenix member in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, but his role in the novel is smaller than in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.
In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Lupin is described as having "light brown hair" that is greying, and he wears shabby, patched clothing. In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, he has a pale face with premature lines. Because there are few employment opportunities for werewolves, as most in the wizarding world are prejudiced against them out of fear of the violent transformations, Lupin depends primarily on the kindness of others for support. When additional anti-werewolf laws are passed by the Ministry of Magic under Dolores Umbridge's direction, Lupin becomes nearly unemployable.
Lupin joins the revived Order of the Phoenix in the fifth book and is part of the advance guard who escorts Harry from the Dursley family home in the book's opening chapters. Lupin lives in Grimmauld Place, the Order of the Phoenix headquarters with Sirius Black. Later, he participates in the battle at the Department of Mysteries where he duels Lucius Malfoy. He came out unscathed while Lucius was bound by invisible ropes by Dumbledore.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Lupin is working undercover as a spy amongst his fellow werewolves, who are under the leadership of the werewolf Fenrir Greyback, who bit Lupin as a child, and joined forces with Voldemort. Remus admits to Harry that due to prejudice in the wizarding world, he has found the werewolves' siding with Voldemort hard to counter, as the Dark Lord offers them more freedom than they are currently allowed.
At the end of the book, it is revealed that Nymphadora Tonks has fallen in love with Remus, who is much older than her. He resisted becoming involved with her because of the risks from his being a werewolf, and he said he is, "too old, too poor, and too dangerous," for her. However, the two are seen holding hands during Dumbledore's funeral.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Lupin appears in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows as even more tired-looking and anxious than before. He takes part in the Order's retrieval of Harry from Privet Drive and just prior to their departure, Tonks reveals that she and Remus were married recently. However, on various occasions he does not appear to be happy but rather tense.
Further into the book, Remus stumbles upon the trio hiding at Grimmauld Place and offers his assistance to help complete whatever task Dumbledore assigned them. A heated argument between Harry and Lupin over his motives for wanting to join them results in the revelation that Tonks is now pregnant; in his paranoia over the possibility of passing down his lycanthropy to his unborn child, he believes his marriage to Tonks has made her an outcast, believing even her own family is disgusted by their alliance, and that the unborn child, would be better off without him. Hermione tries to assure him that a child could never think that of his father; but Harry, who lost his own father and godfather at such a young age, and also does not want to put Remus in danger, criticises him for abandoning his family, going so far as to accuse him of being a coward. Lupin attacks Harry with his wand, smashing him into a wall, and leaves in a rage. Inevitably, he recognizes the truth in Harry's words and returns to Tonks' side.
Lupin remains active in the Order of the Phoenix throughout the year. Loyalists with the wizarding wireless hear him run the casualty reports section on the pirate radio station Potterwatch under the pseudonym of Romulus, a tribute to the twins Romulus and Remus who were raised by wolves. Months later, Tonks gives birth to a healthy baby boy named Teddy Lupin, who demonstrates Metamorphmagus tendencies instead of lycanthropy, and Lupin meets up with Harry to reconcile with him, naming him his son's godfather.
Lupin commands a group of defenders on the school grounds during the Battle of Hogwarts and is last mentioned to be duelling Antonin Dolohov. Both Lupin and Tonks die in combat, killed by Dolohov and Bellatrix Lestrange, respectively, leaving Teddy an orphan with Harry Potter as his godfather and Andromeda Tonks as his guardian. J. K. Rowling has since stated that she originally intended for both Lupin and Tonks to survive.
When Harry uses the Resurrection Stone, a younger-looking Lupin, along with Sirius, James, and Lily accompany Harry through the Forbidden Forest as he approaches Voldemort and an apparently imminent death. Harry apologizes to them all for their deaths, most especially to Lupin, for he would no longer have a chance to raise his son. Lupin tells Harry that he is sorry too, but also that his son will know what his father died for – a world in which his son would lead a happier life – and hopes that he will understand. The four spectres ward off Dementors as they travel through the forest, much like Patronuses, and are invisible to all but Harry. They disappear when Harry drops the Resurrection Stone as he goes to face the Dark Lord.
Rowling stated in an interview that Lupin and Tonks died to compensate for the last-minute reprieve she gave to Arthur Weasley when he survived a would-have-been fatal attack in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
Rowling also stated that it was Antonin Dolohov who killed him.

Portrayal in films
Lupin is portrayed by David Thewlis in the Harry Potter films. The director of Prisoner of Azkaban, Alfonso Cuaron, said Thewlis was his first choice to play the role of Lupin. Thewlis had earlier auditioned for the role of Professor Quirrell in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone but lost out to Ian Hart, who in turn encouraged Thewlis to take the role of Lupin. Thewlis appears as Lupin in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1, and finally in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2. A teenaged version of Lupin briefly appears in Order of the Phoenix played by James Utechin during Snape's memories.

Reception
Lupin's death during the Battle of Hogwarts during Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows has been described as one of the most emotional deaths of the series. J.K. Rowling apologised for killing the character in the years following.


================================================================================

# Ron Weasley

Ronald "Ron" Weasley is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. He is introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone as a first-year student on his way to Hogwarts, a school of magic. During the school year, Ron befriends Harry Potter and Hermione Granger. Being the only member of the trio who was raised in wizarding society, he provides insight into wizarding customs and traditions. Along with Harry and Hermione, he is a member of Gryffindor House at Hogwarts and is present for most of the action throughout the series. Ron is portrayed by Rupert Grint in all eight Harry Potter films, and will be played by Alastair Stout in the upcoming television series.

Creation and development
Ron was one of the first Harry Potter characters that Rowling created. Although Ron and Hermione form a romantic bond in the series and eventually have children, Rowling confessed in a 2014 interview that she wrote the relationship as "a form of wish fulfilment". She said the characters are fundamentally incompatible in some ways, but that their relationship might function with "a bit of counselling".

Appearances

Novels

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Ron is introduced in the first novel in the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997). He and his family encounter Harry Potter at King's Cross station and help him find the Hogwarts Express. Once aboard the train, Ron and Harry meet Hermione Granger, whom they initially dislike. At Hogwarts, all three students are assigned to Gryffindor House. After Ron and Harry save Hermione from a troll, they develop a friendship with her. When the trio seeks the Philosopher's Stone, Ron uses his skill at Wizard's Chess to allow Harry and Hermione to proceed safely through a dangerous, life-sized chess game. At the last dinner of the school year, the Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore rewards Ron's chess skill by giving him fifty House points, which helps Gryffindor win the House Cup.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Ron returns in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998). During the summer after his first year at Hogwarts, Ron writes to Harry several times. He receives no answer because his letters are intercepted by Dobby the house-elf. Ron becomes so concerned that he and his brothers Fred and George fly to Harry's house in their father's enchanted car. Harry spends the next month at the Weasleys' home. When Harry and Ron are unable to board the train to Hogwarts, they take the flying car instead. Ron receives a Howler from his mother, who berates him for taking the car.
Later in the novel, Ron and Harry use Polyjuice Potion to disguise themselves as they infiltrate the Slytherin dormitory and attempt to gather information about the Chamber of Secrets. During a journey into the Forbidden Forest, Ron is forced to encounter his worst nightmare: spiders. The giant arachnids nearly devour Ron and Harry, but the enchanted car rescues them. Ron and Harry then enter the Chamber to save Ron's sister Ginny, who was kidnapped. After Harry rescues her, both boys are given awards for their service to Hogwarts.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999), Ron's pet rat Scabbers goes missing. Ron, Harry and Hermione eventually discover him hiding in Hagrid's hut. When Scabbers runs off again, Ron chases him to the Whomping Willow, where he is snatched by a large black dog and dragged into a tunnel. Ron and his friends follow the tunnel to the Shrieking Shack. The dog turns out to be Sirius Black, who explains that Scabbers is actually the Death Eater Peter Pettigrew. As Ron returns to Hogwarts with Harry, Hermione, Sirius and Remus Lupin, Pettigrew knocks Ron unconscious and escapes. Ron is forced to remain in the hospital wing of Hogwarts while Harry and Hermione travel back in time to rescue Sirius and the hippogriff Buckbeak.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
The Weasleys invite Harry and Hermione to the Quidditch World Cup in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000). Ron is in awe when he sees his favourite Quidditch player, Viktor Krum. He is even more excited when Krum comes to Hogwarts to participate in the Triwizard Tournament. At Christmas time, Ron attends the Yule Ball with Padma Patil. He becomes very upset when he sees that Hermione's date to the Ball is Krum, and the two have a heated argument. In the second task of the Tournament, Harry must rescue Ron from the depths of the Hogwarts lake.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003), Ron is made a Gryffindor prefect. His brother Percy congratulates him and advises him to become an ally of Dolores Umbridge, the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor appointed by the Ministry of Magic. Ron, however, does not support Umbridge's policy of refusing to teach students practical defensive magic. He, Harry and Hermione form the group Dumebledore's Army, which provides a venue for students to practise defensive spellcasting. Ron also joins the Gryffindor Quidditch team as Keeper and helps Gryffindor win the Quidditch Cup. Near the end of the novel, Ron battles Death Eaters at the Department of Mysteries alongside Harry, Hermione, Ginny, Neville Longbottom and Luna Lovegood. He is injured during the fight, but makes a full recovery.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Ron returns as Quidditch Keeper in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005). However, he performs poorly at Quidditch after learning that Hermione may have kissed Krum. He becomes upset when he observes his younger sister Ginny kissing a boy, and Ginny reacts by pointing out that Ron has never been kissed. To bolster Ron's confidence for an upcoming Quidditch match, Harry pretends to give him a luck potion. Believing he has actually taken the potion, Ron performs well and Gryffindor wins the match. During the ensuing celebration, Ron kisses Lavender Brown. Hermione becomes jealous and begins to ignore Ron, who gradually becomes dissatisfied with his relationship with Lavender.
In March, Ron eats chocolates containing a love potion. Horace Slughorn administers an antidote, then kindly offers Ron some mead. Unbeknownst to Slughorn, the mead is poisoned; Harry saves Ron's life by forcing a bezoar down his throat. Ron is taken to the hospital wing, where he is visited by a panic-stricken Hermione. After recovering, Ron reconciles with Hermione and breaks up with Lavender. Later in the novel, Death Eaters enter Hogwarts. Ron, Hermione, Ginny and other students and staff fight them. Snape kills Dumbledore during the battle, after which Ron and Hermione vow to help Harry find and destroy Voldemort's Horcruxes. Rowling said that before this novel, Ron is relatively immature, but the events of Half-Blood Prince help him "grow up emotionally" and become a worthy partner for Hermione.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007), Ron and his friends use Polyjuice Potion to impersonate employees of the Ministry of Magic. They then infiltrate the Ministry and retrieve a Horcrux in the possession of Dolores Umbridge. Fearing the locket containing the Horcrux might be lost or stolen, Harry requests that someone wear it at all times. Wearing the locket has a profound effect on Ron, who lashes out at Harry and Hermione and abandons them. Ron immediately regrets his decision to leave, but is captured by Snatchers and cannot return. Eventually he reunites with his companions with the help of the Deluminator he inherited from Dumbledore. He finds Harry attempting to recover the Sword of Gryffindor from an icy pool and rescues him from drowning. Harry forgives Ron for leaving and insists that he use the sword to destroy the locket.
The trio are captured by Snatchers but are rescued by the house-elf Dobby, who dies during the escape. Eventually, the trio returns to Hogwarts, hoping to find the last unknown Horcrux shown in Harry's vision. Having lost the Sword of Gryffindor to Griphook the goblin, Ron gets an idea to procure more Basilisk fangs and manages to speak enough Parseltongue to open the Chamber of Secrets, where Hermione destroys the Horcrux in Helga Hufflepuff's cup. He begins to worry about the fate of Hogwarts' elves. Upon hearing this, Hermione drops the basilisk fangs she was carrying and kisses him for the first time. He also takes part in the Battle of Hogwarts, witnessing the death of his brother Fred, and teams up with Neville to defeat Fenrir Greyback.
In the epilogue of Deathly Hallows, which is set nineteen years after Voldemort's death, Ron and Hermione are sending their daughter Rose Granger-Weasley off to her first year at Hogwarts. They also have a younger son named Hugo. In interviews following the release of the novel, Rowling gave differing accounts of Ron's life after the events of the series. On one occasion she said Ron and Harry work for the Ministry of Magic as Aurors. In a later interview, she said that Ron works at the joke shop Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes with his brother George.

Portrayal

Film adaptations
Rupert Grint portrays Ron Weasley in all eight Harry Potter films. He auditioned after seeing a segment on the children's news programme, Newsround, inviting children to apply for the role. Grint sent in a photo, a self-written script and a rap explaining his suitability for the part. Rowling was supportive of the casting, calling Grint perfect for the role. As part of the preparation for the film Prisoner of Azkaban, the actors playing Ron, Harry and Hermione were each asked to write an autobiographical essay about their character. The director, Alfonso Cuarón, recalled that Rupert Grint failed to deliver his essay. When Caurón asked him why he did not write it, Grint replied, "I'm Ron; Ron wouldn't do it", to which Caurón replied, "Okay, you do understand your character."
Grint's performance in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone earned him the Satellite Award for Outstanding New Talent and the Young Artist Award for Most Promising Young Newcomer. In a 2020 article, Nathan Sharp of Screen Rant described him as the most natural child actor in the early films, and "excellent from minute one". Grint commented on playing Ron in the series: "The line between Ron Weasley and me got thinner with each film".

Television series adaptation
Alastair Stout is set to portray Ron Weasley in the television series version of Harry Potter, as announced on 27 May 2025.

Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is a play written by Jack Thorne from an original story by Thorne, J.K. Rowling and John Tiffany. The plot occurs nineteen years after the events of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. In the play, Ron and Hermione send their daughter Rose on the train to Hogwarts. Hermione is now the Minister for Magic, while Ron manages Weasley's Wizard Wheezes with his brother George. In the second act, Harry's son Albus Severus and Draco Malfoy's son Scorpius travel through time, and their actions change Ron and Hermione's relationship during their time at Hogwarts. Ron falls in love with Padma Patil at the Yule Ball, with the result that Ron and Hermione never marry. However, this alternate timeline is eventually erased, and the original timeline is restored.
In 2016, Paul Thornley portrayed Ron Weasley in the stage debut of the play at the Palace Theatre in London. For his performance, Thornley was nominated for Best Supporting Actor in a Play at the 2017 WhatsOnStage Awards. Thornley reprised the role on Broadway at the Lyric Theater in 2018, and again in 2020.

Characterisation

Appearance and personality
In the first novel, Ron is described as tall, thin and gangling, with freckles, a long nose, and large hands and feet. He has the trademark red hair of the Weasleys, and according to Rowling he has blue eyes. Ron is known for his humour, loyalty, readiness to defend his friends, and his love of food. Rowling has described him as funny but insensitive. She said that although he is the most immature of the three main characters, he matures in the final novel and acknowledges his weaknesses, which turns him into a man.

Reception
The entertainment website IGN selected Ron as the third best Harry Potter character, writing that his status as comic relief makes him instantly endearing. The IGN writers claimed that unlike most sidekicks, Ron is not a coward or a simpleton, and is not content to "live in Harry's shadow". They said that he overcomes his shortcomings with "faithfulness and perseverance". Empire magazine included Ron's friendship with Harry as one of the 33 best friendships in film.

In popular culture
In 2003, the British charity organisation Comic Relief performed a spoof story called Harry Potter and the Secret Chamberpot of Azerbaijan, in which Jennifer Saunders appeared as both Ron and J. K. Rowling.


================================================================================

# Hagrid

Rubeus Hagrid (), often known simply as Hagrid, is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. He was introduced in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) as a half-giant who is the gamekeeper and groundskeeper at the wizarding school Hogwarts. He is a member of the Order of the Phoenix and eventually becomes the Care of Magical Creatures professor. Hagrid is portrayed by Robbie Coltrane in all eight Harry Potter films.

Creation and development
Rubeus Hagrid was one of the first characters Rowling created. In a 1999 interview, she explained that the name "Hagrid" is an Old English word derived from hagridden, meaning 'tormented by hags'. She said it means "you'd had a bad night" and she explained that Hagrid "has a lot of bad nights" due to his heavy drinking. In Latin, "Rubeus" means "red", and was chosen because Rowling conceived of Hagrid as an "earthy, warm, and physical man".
The character of Hagrid and conversations between him, Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in his hut are expository through the series, due to the fact that the trio frequently discover things about Albus Dumbledore and Hogwarts by talking with Hagrid, as he has a habit of letting slip bits of information that were specifically confided to him. He was also one of the first characters to imply that the idea of thinking of wizards as "pure-bloods" and "half-bloods" is a dated concept.
Rowling has stated in an interview that Hagrid was in Gryffindor house during his time as a student. When he comes into possession of an acromantula (Aragog), he is expelled from Hogwarts as his pet is believed to be the "monster of Slytherin". However, persuaded by Dumbledore (who at the time was the Transfiguration teacher), Headmaster Armando Dippet agrees to train Hagrid as gamekeeper, allowing the boy to remain at Hogwarts. By the time Harry attends Hogwarts, Hagrid is also the Keeper of Keys and Grounds; the former, according to Rowling, means "that he will let you in and out of Hogwarts." Part of his job includes leading the first years across the lake in boats, upon their initial arrival at Hogwarts.
When discussing the killing off of characters in her books, Rowling said that she always knew she was "working towards the point where Hagrid carried Harry out alive – but supposedly dead – out of the forest". She said she had planned from very early on that Harry would walk to his death accompanied by the 'ghosts', and that "he would emerge in Hagrid's arms". In her own words, "that's what always kept Hagrid safe". She said "Hagrid would have been a natural to kill in some ways", but that the mental image of this moment – a big fatherly Hagrid carrying the limp Harry in his arms – was so strong it decided his fate. Although some fans were afraid that Hagrid would die in the final novel, Rowling had always planned for him to survive. She also liked the circular notion of Hagrid both bringing Harry into the world, and then bringing him back from the dead. During an interview in 2007, when asked if Hagrid did marry, Rowling answered that Hagrid developed a relationship with a giantess, but it did not work out.

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Hagrid is introduced in the opening chapter of the first novel, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997). Following the murder of James and Lily Potter by Lord Voldemort, Albus Dumbledore entrusts Hagrid with the infant Harry Potter, who survived Voldemort's attack. Ten years later, Hagrid brings the Philosopher's Stone from Gringotts Wizarding Bank to Hogwarts, where it is guarded by an enormous three-headed dog named Fluffy. Dumbledore also gives Hagrid the task of locating Harry and helping him buy school supplies for his first year at Hogwarts.
Later in the novel, a hooded person—Professor Quirinus Quirrell in disguise—gives Hagrid a dragon egg in exchange for details about Fluffy. Harry and his friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger are also curious about Fluffy, and Hagrid lets slip that the way to get past him is to play music. When Harry and his friends  decide to seek the Philosopher's Stone, they soothe Fluffy to sleep with a flute which Hagrid carved for Harry. When the dragon egg hatches, the three friends assist Hagrid by helping to remove the baby dragon Norbert, who is taken to a dragon sanctuary in Romania.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Hagrid returns in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (1998). The novel reveals that Hagrid was a student at Hogwarts at the same time as Tom Riddle, the wizard who later became Voldemort. Hagrid was expelled after being caught in the company of Aragog, a gigantic spider. It was believed that Aragog was responsible for mysterious attacks upon students, and that Hagrid had released him from the Chamber of Secrets. The belief of Hagrid's guilt was encouraged by Riddle, the actual criminal, who had been using a different monster—a Basilisk—to assault students. In Chamber of Secrets, the Basilisk is unleashed again and Hagrid, seemingly guilty once more, is sent to the wizard prison Azkaban. Before being arrested, Hagrid tells Harry and Ron to follow spiders into the Forbidden Forest so they can meet Aragog and discover the truth about the monster. After Harry defeats the Basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets, Hagrid is freed from prison.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Hagrid becomes the Care of Magical Creatures professor at Hogwarts in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (1999). He was cleared of wrongdoing after the events of the previous novel, and is now allowed to perform magic. During his first class, he introduces Buckbeak and other hippogriffs to the students. After Draco Malfoy provokes Buckbeak, the hippogriff attacks him. As a result, the Ministry of Magic sentences Buckbeak to death. Near the end of the book, Hermione and Harry use a Time-Turner to save Buckbeak from execution.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), it is revealed that Hagrid is a half-giant. His mother was the giantess Fridwulfa, and his father was a human wizard. Hagrid's parentage is exposed in the Daily Prophet newspaper by the tabloid journalist Rita Skeeter, who portrays Hagrid as dangerous and incompetent. Hagrid is deeply affected by her article and attempts to resign from his position, but Dumbledore will not accept his resignation. During the course of the novel, Hagrid develops a romantic interest in Olympe Maxime, the towering headmistress of the French wizarding school Beauxbatons.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Hagrid is absent during the first part of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003). He later reveals to Harry, Ron and Hermione that he and Madame Maxime travelled across Europe together on a mission to find giants and convince them to ally themselves with Dumbledore. However, Death Eaters managed to bring the giants to Voldemort's side. Hagrid was attacked by giants during the mission, and saved by Maxime. During the journey, Maxime became exasperated with Grawp, Hagrid's giant half-brother whom he was attempting to bring with them. Hagrid introduces Grawp to Harry and Hermione, and asks them to supervise him when Hagrid leaves Hogwarts. During the course of the novel, the High Inquisitor of Hogwarts Dolores Umbridge supervises classes and seeks an excuse to fire Hagrid. Eventually, Umbridge and other Ministry of Magic officials attempt to arrest him, but he manages to escape. He is later reinstated as a professor.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry, Ron, and Hermione are no longer Care of Magical Creatures students in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005). Hagrid is both angry and disappointed, but he realises that it is not because they do not like him. When Aragog dies, Hagrid gives the spider a proper funeral. Afterwards, Hagrid and Professor Horace Slughorn drink large quantities of Firewhisky, which allows Harry the opportunity to retrieve an important memory from Slughorn. Towards the end of the novel, Death Eaters attack Hogwarts and set fire to Hagrid's hut as he tries to fight them.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007), Hagrid is part of the Order of the Phoenix delegation assigned to transport Harry to the Burrow. Hagrid takes Harry on his flying motorcycle, but the journey goes awry when the delegation is ambushed by Death Eaters. Hagrid and Harry manage to arrive at the Burrow after being attacked by Voldemort himself. When the Death Eaters take over Hogwarts, Hagrid is driven into hiding in the mountains. Later, during the Battle of Hogwarts, Hagrid is carried off by a swarm of spiders after attempting to protect them. He is later captured by Death Eaters and brought into the Forbidden Forest, where Harry intends to sacrifice himself to Voldemort. Harry seems to die at Voldemort's hand, and Hagrid carries his body back to Hogwarts. When Harry is revealed to be alive, Hagrid participates in the second part of the battle. He injures Walden Macnair, the executioner who nearly executed Buckbeak.
In the epilogue of Deathly Hallows, set nineteen years after Voldemort's death, Hagrid is still at Hogwarts. He invites Harry's son Albus Severus Potter to his hut for tea. According to Rowling, Hagrid acts as a guardian and guide for Harry throughout the series. She was planning for him to carry Harry to Hogwarts in Deathly Hallows before Philosopher's Stone was even published.

Portrayal in other media

Film

The Scottish actor Robbie Coltrane portrays Hagrid in all eight Harry Potter films. Rowling had wanted Coltrane for the role from the start. Robin Williams was interested in the part, but was rejected because the film series had a "British-only" cast policy. Coltrane had read the Harry Potter novels to his son and was already a fan of them. Rowling discussed Hagrid's past and future with Coltrane to help him prepare for the role. She commended him for his ability to portray both the loveable and comic side of Hagrid and the "toughness underneath". Coltrane said that being part of the Harry Potter franchise is "a fantastic thing".
Former English rugby union player Martin Bayfield portrayed Hagrid as a stunt performer in longer shots due to his large size to emphasise Hagrid's height. Bayfield also appeared as a young Hagrid in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.

Television
Hagrid is set to be portrayed by actor Nick Frost in the HBO television adaption of the Harry Potter series.

Characterisation

Outward appearance
In Philosopher's Stone, Hagrid is described as being twice as tall as the average man and nearly five times as wide (later novels call him three times as wide). In the film version of Philosopher's Stone, his height is 8 feet 6 inches (2.59 metres).

Personality
Hagrid has a friendly, softhearted personality and is easily driven to tears. He is very loyal to his peers, especially Dumbledore, to whom he refers as the greatest wizard in the world multiple times. As first seen in Philosopher's Stone, he becomes extremely angry whenever anyone insults Dumbledore around him (a mistake made by Vernon Dursley, who called Dumbledore a "crackpot old fool"). He is also very loyal to Harry, suffered several times during the series because of this loyalty, and had to go into hiding twice to avoid prison. Rowling says of Hagrid, "Hagrid was always supposed to be this almost elemental force. He's like the king of the forest, or the Green Man. He's this semi-wild person who lives on the edge of the forest".

Magical abilities and skills
Following his expulsion from Hogwarts, the Ministry of Magic broke Hagrid's oak wand and forbade him to perform magic. Hagrid keeps the pieces of his wand in a pink umbrella, and performs small spells from time to time; however, he was technically forbidden to do magic until the third book, and since he is not a fully qualified wizard, he "will always be a bit inept" as compared to other adult wizards, but "occasionally surprises everyone, himself included, by bringing off more impressive bits of magic". However, he is unable to produce a Patronus. He also has magical abilities that stem from his giant blood. For example, in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, many of the stunning spells thrown at him by Ministry officials simply bounce off him. Also, being half-giant gives Hagrid some level of superhuman strength, which allowed him to bend the barrel of a shotgun with one hand.
Being a half-giant, he is less vulnerable to jinxes and spells than full humans. In Order of the Phoenix, when Umbridge and some other wizards come to remove him from Hogwarts he fights back. They try to jinx and stun him, but the spells just bounce off him because of giant-inherited resistance to magic. Hagrid also shows this resilience at the end of Half-Blood Prince, during the chapter Flight of the Prince, withstanding a Death Eater's powerful curses. Some potions are also ineffective with him, such as Polyjuice Potion, which is designed for human-only use.

Analysis
In her article "Harry's Fame", Rosemary Goring notes the Forest of Dean is an influence on Rowling's work, and Hagrid is the only character that is "directly drawn from the Forest of Dean". According to Goring, Hagrid's "dropped word-endings are a Chepstow speciality." She also claims that Hagrid is physically "modeled on the Welsh chapter of Hells Angels who'd swoop down on the town and hog the bar, 'huge mountains of leather and hair".

In popular culture
In Alistair McGowan's Big Impression show, Hagrid appeared in a sketch called "Louis Potter and the Philosopher's Scone", in which he was portrayed by Robbie Coltrane himself. Hagrid is also parodied in Harry Potter and the Secret Chamberpot of Azerbaijan, a story released by Comic Relief in 2003, and he was played by Ronnie Corbett. Hagrid also appears in the parody stage production Harry Potter and the Obnoxious Voice, interacting with Draco Malfoy and a dementor.
Hagrid makes an appearance in the theme park attraction Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey at The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Orlando, Japan and Hollywood. A new rollercoaster, Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure, opened at Universal Orlando's Islands of Adventure theme park on 13 June 2019, replacing the Dragon Challenge dual roller coasters and is themed around Hagrid and his love for magical creatures.


================================================================================

# Severus Snape

Severus Snape is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. In the first five novels, he is the professor of Potions at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. In the sixth book, he teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts, and in the seventh book he ascends to the position of headmaster before his death. Snape is hostile, yet heroic towards Harry Potter throughout the series; Harry eventually learns that Snape was bullied by Harry's father, James Potter, and was in love with Harry's mother, Lily Evans. This causes Snape to have mixed feelings towards Harry, who resembles his father greatly, but has his mother's eyes. As the series progresses, Snape's character becomes more layered and enigmatic. A central mystery is unravelled concerning his loyalties. Snape dies at the hands of Lord Voldemort in the seventh book, at which time his back story is revealed. Despite his attraction to the Dark Arts and Voldemort's ideology of wizard supremacy, Snape's love for Muggle-born Lily Evans, Harry's mother, eventually compelled him to defect from the Death Eaters. He then became a double agent for Albus Dumbledore and the Order of the Phoenix. The fact that Lily chose James Potter, Harry's father, only fuels Snape's hostility towards Harry.
Snape's character has been widely acclaimed by readers and critics. Rowling described him as "a gift of a character", whose story she had known since the first book. Elizabeth Hand of The Washington Post explained that Snape's life "is the most heartbreaking, surprising and satisfying of all of Rowling's achievements".
Alan Rickman portrayed Snape in all eight Harry Potter films, released between 2001 and 2011. Paapa Essiedu will portray the character in the upcoming HBO TV adaptation.

Character development
In an interview, Rowling described Snape's character as an "antihero". She has said that she drew inspiration for Snape's character from a disliked teacher from her own childhood, and described Snape as a horrible teacher, saying the "worst, shabbiest thing you can do" as a teacher is to bully students. However, she does suggest in the books that he is generally an effective teacher. Although Rowling has said that Gilderoy Lockhart is her only character that she "deliberately based on a real person", Snape was reportedly based, at least in part, on John Nettleship, who taught Rowling chemistry and employed her mother as an assistant at Wyedean School near Chepstow. Rowling based Snape's given name on "Severus Road" in Clapham, and his surname is borrowed from the name of a village in England. In a 1999 interview and again in 2004, Rowling singled out Snape as one of her favourite characters to write.
Rowling was less forthcoming about Snape than she was for other characters, because his true loyalties and motivations were not revealed until the final book. However, she hinted numerous times at Snape's important role, suggesting that people should "keep their eye on Snape". In 1999, answering a question regarding Snape's love life and the redemptive pattern to his character, Rowling expressed her surprise at the foresight. Rowling also disclosed that after the publication of Prisoner of Azkaban, there was one female fan who guessed Snape loved Lily Potter, making Rowling wonder how she had given herself away.
After the completion of the series, Rowling began to speak openly about Snape, discussing the contrast between his character arc and that of Albus Dumbledore. Rowling said "the series is built around [the Dumbledore and Snape storylines]", and maintained that she always knew what Snape would turn out to be at the end and that she carefully plotted his storyline throughout the series. "I had to drop clues all the way through because as you know in the seventh book when you have the revelation scene where everything shifts and you realise...what Snape's motivation was. I had to plot that through the books because at the point where you see what was really going on, it would have been an absolute cheat on the reader at that point just to show a bunch of stuff you've never seen before." Rowling further said in an interview that she wanted Snape to find redemption and forgiveness: "Snape is a complicated man...he was a flawed human being, like all of us. Harry forgives him...Harry really sees the good in Snape ultimately... I wanted there to be redemption."

Appearances

Novels

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Snape first appears in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, shortly after Harry arrives at Hogwarts. He is the school's Potions Master, though he is widely rumoured to covet the Defence Against the Dark Arts post. Snape himself confirms the rumour in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Snape is a sinister and malicious teacher who makes frequent snide and disparaging remarks at Harry's expense. He quickly becomes the primary antagonist of the book, as Harry suspects him of plotting to steal the Philosopher's Stone, and of attempting to kill him. Only the climax of the book reveals that Professor Quirrell, in league with Lord Voldemort, is the real enemy; Snape, suspicious of Quirrell, had been looking out for Harry throughout the book.
In the final chapter, Dumbledore suggests that because Harry's father James had saved Snape's life when they were both students, even though the two detested each other, Snape felt responsible for Harry in return. As the final book reveals, this is not the full story. In any case, even after Quirrell's true role is revealed, Harry retains feelings of suspicion and resentment towards Snape, and their relationship remains tense. Snape's behaviour and attitude towards Harry also remain unchanged.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Snape has a minor role in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, where he helps Gilderoy Lockhart oversee Hogwarts's short-lived Duelling Club, but he has little interaction with the main plot. It is while attending the Duelling Club that Harry learns the Expelliarmus spell, which plays a significant role in later books, by seeing Snape use it.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Snape demonstrates his expertise with potions by brewing the complex Wolfsbane potion for the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Remus Lupin. Throughout the third book, Snape suspects that Lupin may be helping Harry's godfather Sirius Black enter Hogwarts castle; Sirius had been convicted (wrongly, as it is later revealed) of murdering Peter Pettigrew and innocent bystanders, and betraying the Potter family's hiding place to Voldemort. This suspicion stems from Lupin's friendship with Sirius and Harry's father, James, while they were all at Hogwarts as students. Near the climax of the book, Snape attempts to apprehend Sirius, but Sirius escapes with Harry's aid. Snape informs Dumbledore of this circumstance, and when Harry and Lupin are not punished, Snape retaliates by revealing to the entire school that Lupin is a werewolf, forcing the latter to resign his post.
Prisoner of Azkaban reveals more details about the connection between Snape and James. While in school together, Sirius once tricked Snape into almost entering the Shrieking Shack while Lupin was there, transformed into a werewolf. James realised the danger and stopped Snape, saving his life; this is the incident Dumbledore referred to at the end of the first book. Snape, however, believes James's actions were self-serving to avoid being expelled.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Snape's role in the fourth novel, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, is not substantially different from that of the previous three books. He is apoplectic when Harry is unexpectedly entered into the Triwizard Tournament. Later Harry accidentally falls into Dumbledore's Pensieve and views memories of several Death Eater trials from years before. At one point, Snape is named as a Death Eater by Igor Karkaroff, but Dumbledore comes to Snape's defence, claiming that although Snape had indeed been a Death Eater, he changed sides before Voldemort's downfall and turned spy against him. Later, Dumbledore assures Harry that Snape's reformation is genuine, though he refuses to tell Harry how he knows this, saying the information "is a matter between Professor Snape and myself".
At the end of the book, Dumbledore attempts to convince a disbelieving Minister for Magic, Cornelius Fudge, that Voldemort has returned. As proof, Snape willingly shows Fudge the restored Dark Mark on his arm. He is subsequently sent on a secret mission by Dumbledore. This mission, as had been implied in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and revealed in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, was to rejoin the Death Eaters and spy on Voldemort as a re-doubled agent, while pretending to spy on Dumbledore on behalf of Voldemort.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
In the fifth novel, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Snape returns to a more prominent role. With Voldemort having returned to a fully corporeal body, Snape continues working as a re-doubled agent for Dumbledore. He is seen prior to the start of school at Number 12, Grimmauld Place giving reports to the Order of the Phoenix. He has a very strained relationship with Sirius, who owns Grimmauld Place and must remain there in hiding. The two trade frequent snide remarks and at one point almost begin a duel. Snape taunts Sirius about the latter's not being able to take an active role in the Order's missions because of his fugitive status. Harry feels later that this taunting contributed to Sirius's willingness to take unsafe risks. Back at school, Snape's allegiance to the Order has no effect on his dislike for Harry.
Later in the book, Dumbledore has Snape teach Harry Occlumency, the protection of the mind from outside intrusion or influence. The sessions mainly consist of Snape forcibly reading Harry's mind to teach him to defend himself, but are made difficult by their mutual hostility. They end prematurely when Harry looks into Snape's Pensieve after Snape leaves the room and views Snape's worst childhood memory without his permission. He sees the memory of Snape being bullied by James and Sirius, and of calling Harry's mother Lily a Mudblood (a highly offensive term). Only in the final book is it revealed that, prior to this confrontation, Snape and Lily had been close friends.
Towards the end of the novel, Dolores Umbridge – the school's politically-appointed headmistress – captures Harry and interrogates him about Dumbledore's whereabouts. She sends for Snape, demanding that he provide the magical truth serum Veritaserum in order to force Harry to reveal any information he may be hiding. Snape claims that his supplies of the serum have been exhausted after Umbridge tries to use the drug previously on Harry. It is later revealed that Snape had, in fact, supplied Umbridge with fake Veritaserum on the prior attempt. Snape then carries Harry's cryptic warning about Sirius's capture to the other Order members, allowing them to come to the rescue in the Department of Mysteries. Harry still holds Snape partly responsible for Sirius's death, believing Snape's goading spurred Sirius into joining the battle.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
In the second chapter of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Bellatrix Lestrange and Narcissa Malfoy visit Snape at his home in Spinner's End. Narcissa's son Draco has been given a difficult task by Voldemort, and Narcissa swears Snape to an Unbreakable Vow that he will protect Draco, help him complete Voldemort's task, and finish the task himself if Draco fails. When questioned by Bellatrix about his loyalties, Snape says he has been working for Voldemort ever since Voldemort's return, and explains his actions in the previous books in that light. He points out that gaining Dumbledore's trust and protection has kept him out of Azkaban and free to operate on Voldemort's behalf.
At the start-of-term feast at Hogwarts, Dumbledore announces Snape as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. Horace Slughorn, Snape's own former teacher, comes out of retirement and replaces him as Potions Master. With Snape no longer teaching Potions, Harry enrolls in Slughorn's class and is lent an old textbook until his new one arrives. Harry finds marginalia, including a variety of hexes and jinxes seemingly invented by an unknown student, and substantial improvements to the book's standard potion-making instructions. The text is inscribed as being "the Property of the Half-Blood Prince". The notes greatly bolster Harry's performance in Potions, so much so that he impresses Slughorn. Snape, who maintains that he "never had the impression that [he] had been able to teach Potter anything at all", is suspicious of Harry's newfound Potions success.
Later, during a fight with Draco, Harry casts one of the Prince's spells marked "For Enemies," and is horrified by the devastating wounds it inflicts on Draco's face and chest. Snape rushes to the scene and heals Draco, then interrogates Harry regarding the spell, using Legilimency to extract the source of Harry's knowledge (the Potions textbook) from Harry's mind. When Snape insists that Harry show him his Potions textbook, Harry hides the Prince's book and gives him Ron Weasley's book instead. As punishment for the attack and knowing Harry is lying about the textbook, Snape assigns Harry detention for every weekend until the end of the year, one of which collides with the final Quidditch match of the year.
Before leaving Hogwarts to accompany Dumbledore in locating another horcrux – part of Voldemort's soul – Harry discovers from Professor Trelawney that it was Snape who overheard the prophecy and told it to Voldemort, resulting in Voldemort hunting down Harry and his parents. Despite this and Harry's angry questions, Dumbledore avers his trust in Snape. Returning to Hogwarts after retrieving Voldemort's Horcrux, Harry and Dumbledore alight atop the school's astronomy tower. Gravely weakened by the horcrux's protective potion, Dumbledore tells Harry he must fetch Snape, but before Harry can leave, Draco suddenly arrives, intending to carry out Voldemort's order to assassinate Dumbledore, closely followed by other Death Eaters (followers of Voldemort), and Snape. Snape interrupts the planned murder, killing the headmaster himself. Harry, who is paralysed under his invisibility cloak by Dumbledore for his own protection, witnesses the kill, and is released upon Dumbledore's death. Enraged, he pursues Snape, Draco, and the Death Eaters as they flee the castle. Snape easily blocks Harry's spells and jeeringly points out Harry's mistakes, but never strikes back. During the confrontation, Snape reveals himself as the eponymous "Half-Blood Prince" (being the half-blood son of Muggle Tobias Snape and pure-blood Eileen Prince). Snape passes through the school gates and Disapparates with Draco in tow at the book's end. The full relationship between Dumbledore and Snape and the reason for Snape's actions remain unknown until the final book. In an interview, Rowling mentioned that at this point in the series, the Harry–Snape relationship has become "as personal, if not more so, than Harry–Voldemort."

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Voldemort and his Death Eaters have tightened their grip on the wizarding world. Snape is named Headmaster of Hogwarts, while Death Eaters Alecto and Amycus Carrow are appointed as Hogwarts staff. The novel focuses largely on Harry and his friends and events outside the school; therefore Snape plays a limited role at the start. In the course of the book, Harry and his friends find out that a few students attempted to steal the Sword of Godric Gryffindor, and that Snape subsequently sent it to be stored at Gringotts Wizarding Bank; however, that sword was only a copy. Later on, Harry and Ron are led to find the real sword by a Patronus taking the form of a doe. Towards the end of the book, Harry learns that this was Snape's Patronus, taking the same shape as Harry's mother Lily's Patronus, a visible sign of his lifelong love for Harry's mother, and that Dumbledore had asked Snape to ensure that Harry gained possession of the sword. The novel also reveals that Snape had covertly used his position as Headmaster to protect the students and to contain the Carrows.
Towards the end of the school year, Professors McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout force Snape to flee the school. Voldemort summons Snape to the Shrieking Shack. Erroneously believing Snape is the master of the Elder Wand and that Snape's death will make him the master of the Wand, Voldemort kills Snape by having his pet snake Nagini bite him through the neck. The dying Snape releases a cloud of memories and tells Harry, who has watched the entire scene from a hidden spot, to take and view them. The dying Snape asks Harry to look at him, since Harry has the eyes of his mother Lily which Snape loved, and Snape wants to have these eyes as the last thing he would see.
From these memories, Harry sees Snape's childhood and learns his true loyalties. In this vision, Harry learns that Snape befriended Lily as a child when they lived near each other. Upon their arrival at Hogwarts, the Sorting Hat placed Snape and Lily into Slytherin and Gryffindor Houses, respectively. They remained friends for the next few years until they were driven apart by Snape's interest in the Dark Arts; the friendship finally ended following the bullying episode that Harry had briefly seen in the fifth book, in which Snape calls Lily "Mudblood". Despite this separation and Snape's enduring animosity toward Lily's eventual husband James Potter, Snape continued to love Lily for the rest of his life.
The memories also show that as a Death Eater, Snape had revealed to Voldemort a prophecy made by Sybill Trelawney, causing Voldemort to attempt to prevent it by killing Harry and his parents. Snape, who had not realised until too late that Voldemort had interpreted the prophecy to be referring to Lily and her family (as it could've also referred to Frank and Alice Longbottom and their son Neville Longbottom), asked Voldemort to spare Lily. Still in terror for her life, he also approached Dumbledore, admitted his actions, and begged him to protect the Potters. Dumbledore chided him for thinking only of himself and not of Lily's husband and child, but agreed and ensured that they were placed under the Fidelius Charm. In return, Snape secretly allied himself with Dumbledore and the Order of the Phoenix as a double agent against Voldemort, using his powers of Occlumency to hide his betrayal from Voldemort. However, Snape demanded of Dumbledore that his love for Lily (his reason for switching sides) be kept a secret, especially from Harry, because of the deep animosity he felt towards Harry's father and his mixed feelings towards Harry (who reminded him of both his love for Lily Potter and her death, and his animosity towards James Potter). Dumbledore agreed and kept the secret throughout his life, although questioning Snape's request to "never reveal the best of you". Even with his efforts to protect her, Snape felt guilty and responsible for Lily's death at Voldemort's hands.
Snape's memories then reveal that Dumbledore had impetuously tried to use the Gaunt ring, which had been cursed by Voldemort, and had been suffering from a powerful curse. Snape's knowledge of the Dark Arts enabled him to slow the spread of the curse from Dumbledore's hand through his body, but he would have died within a year. Dumbledore, aware that Voldemort had ordered Draco to kill him, had asked Snape to kill him instead as a way of sparing the boy's soul and of preventing his own otherwise slow, painful death. Although Snape was reluctant, even asking about the impact of such an action on his own soul, Dumbledore implied that this kind of coup de grâce would not damage a human's soul in the same way murder would. Nevertheless, they both knew that Snape could not avoid what he had sworn to Narcissa at the beginning of the previous book. Snape agreed to do as the Headmaster requested. Snape's memories also provide Harry with the information he needs to ensure Voldemort's final defeat, in the form of conversations Snape had with Dumbledore.
Rowling noted in an interview that because Snape abandoned his post before dying or officially retiring, a portrait of him does not immediately appear in the Headmaster's office following his death. She adds, however, that she would like to think Harry made Snape's true loyalty and heroism known in the Wizarding world, and that he lobbied to ensure that a portrait be installed in the office. In a separate interview, Rowling discussed Snape's back story, saying she had planned it ever since she wrote the first book because the whole series is built around it and she considers him one of the most important characters of the seventh book.

Epilogue
In the epilogue to Deathly Hallows, set nineteen years after Harry defeats Voldemort, Harry has named his second-born son Albus Severus, after Albus Dumbledore and Severus Snape. As Albus is about to enter his first year at Hogwarts, he expresses concern that he will be sorted into Slytherin. Harry tells his son, "you were named for two headmasters of Hogwarts. One of them [Snape] was a Slytherin and he was probably the bravest man I ever knew."

Portrayal in media

Film
Severus Snape is portrayed by Alan Rickman in all eight Harry Potter films. Rickman was Rowling's personal choice to portray the character. He had conversations with Rowling about his character and is one of the few Harry Potter actors that she spoke to prior to the completion of the book series about the future direction of the character. "He knew very early on that he'd been in love with Lily," said Rowling. "He needed to understand [...] where this bitterness towards this boy who's the living example of her preference for another man came from."Rickman used this knowledge of Snape's ultimate loyalties throughout the films to decide how to play certain scenes, deliver specific lines, or use body language to convey specific emotions. When the directors of the films would ask him why he was doing a scene a certain way or delivering a line in a specific manner, Rickman would simply reply that he knew something they didn't.
Rickman himself refrained from talking about Snape, asking readers to wait and "see what unfolds" in the course of the novels; however, he did say Snape is a complicated person, very rigid and full of himself; in an interview he went further, saying: "Snape isn't one who enjoys jokes and I strongly fear that his sense of humour is extremely limited... But in his defence, I will add that he didn't have an easy adolescence, particularly during his studies at Hogwarts." He also said Snape is a fascinating character, and that he takes immense pleasure in playing such an ambiguous person.
Rickman's performance as Snape was widely acclaimed by critics, fans and Rowling herself. Entertainment Weekly listed Rickman as one of the most popular movie stars in 2007 for his performance as Snape, saying: "As the icy, humourless magic instructor Severus Snape, Rickman may not be on screen long—but he owns every minute." Rickman also noted fans' reactions; in an interview, he said he found "that people in general adore Snape. He is sarcastic, stubborn, etc, etc. But he is also fascinating. I have a lot of fun impersonating him." Rickman was nominated for several awards for his portrayal of Snape, and in 2011, was elected the best character portrayal in all the Harry Potter films series.
In 2011, Empire magazine published an open letter from Rickman to J.K. Rowling, ruminating on the ten years of working on the Potter films and thanking her for telling the story.
In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, the fifteen-year-old Snape (portrayed by Alec Hopkins) makes a brief appearance in a flashback to Snape's youth. In the final film, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2, the younger Snape, perhaps ten or eleven, is played by Benedict Clarke. In 2016, a fan film prequel, Severus Snape and the Marauders, was released online and Snape was played by Morgana Ignis.
Before Alan Rickman was offered the role of Severus Snape, the role was offered to Tim Roth, who turned it down in favour of portraying General Thade in Planet of the Apes.

Television
Snape is set to be portrayed by Paapa Essiedu in the HBO television adaption of the Harry Potter series.

Stage
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is a play written by Jack Thorne from a story by Thorne, J. K. Rowling and John Tiffany. In the play, Draco Malfoy's son Scorpius finds himself in an alternate timeline in which Voldemort won the Battle of Hogwarts, killed Harry, and instituted a reign of terror. Scorpius desperately searches for help in restoring history to its original course. He finds that in this reality Snape is still alive and still teaches at Hogwarts, and asks for his help. At first Snape is suspicious of him, since this timeline's version of Scorpius is a bully and a Voldemort stalwart. But when Scorpius shows that he knows of Snape having been in love with Lily, Harry's mother – Snape's most closely guarded secret – Snape becomes convinced that he does indeed come from a different timeline where Harry and his friends won. Snape then reveals that he, together with the fugitive Ron and Hermione Granger, maintain the last remnants of Dumbledore's Army – still waging hopeless resistance against the all-powerful Voldemort. In talking with Scorpius, Snape had learned that Harry would name his son "Albus Severus" and would regard Snape as "probably the bravest man I ever knew" – and is deeply moved. Though having guessed that in the other timeline he would die, Snape nevertheless willingly helps Scorpius recreate this timeline – and being discovered by Dementors, Snape sacrifices himself in order to cover Scorpius' escape. Snape was originally portrayed by Paul Bentall in the West End.

Characterisation

Outward appearance
Snape is described as a thin man with sallow skin, a large, hooked nose, and yellow, uneven teeth. He has shoulder-length, greasy black hair which frames his face, and cold, black eyes. He wears black, flowing robes which give him the appearance of "an overgrown bat". The youthful Snape had a "stringy, pallid look", being "round-shouldered yet angular", having a "twitchy" walk "that recalled a spider" and "long oily hair that jumped about his face".
In the chapter illustrations by Mary GrandPré in the American editions of The Prisoner of Azkaban, The Order of the Phoenix, and The Half-Blood Prince, Snape is depicted with a moustache and goatee, long black hair, and a receding hairline.

Personality
Snape is generally depicted as being cold, calculating, precise, sarcastic, and bitter. He strongly dislikes Harry and often insults him by insulting his father James. As the series progresses, it is revealed that his treatment of Harry stems from Snape's bitter rivalry with James when they were in school together. In particular, James and Sirius bullied Snape, which according to Alan Rickman caused the already lonely boy to further "shut himself in". Rowling further described the young Snape as insecure and vulnerable: "Given his time over again [Snape] would not have become a Death Eater, but like many insecure, vulnerable people he craved membership of something big and powerful, something impressive.[...] [He] was so blinded by his attraction to the dark side he thought [Lily] would find him impressive if he became a real Death Eater."
The adult Snape, on the other hand, is portrayed as very self-assured and confident of his abilities, to a degree that Rickman described as "full of himself." Director David Yates said Snape is a character with gravitas, authority and power. Snape typically displays a very calm and collected demeanour, rarely at a loss for words or taken off guard. His temper, however, is sometimes short where Harry is concerned and positively flares when dealing with his erstwhile tormentor Sirius, or when accused of cowardice. His otherwise impassive and aloof attitude seems to stem from his belief that people who cannot control their emotions are weak.
Like some other prominent members of Slytherin house, Snape is shown to be a clever and cunning wizard. He is intelligent and has a keen, analytical mind. In an interview, Rowling adds that Snape is immensely brave, and when asked if she considers Snape a hero, replied: "Yes, I do; though a very flawed hero. An anti-hero, perhaps. He is not a particularly likeable man in many ways. He remains rather cruel, a bully, riddled with bitterness and insecurity—and yet he loved, and showed loyalty to that love and, ultimately, laid down his life because of it. That's pretty heroic!"

Magical abilities and skills
All seven novels show Snape to be a very powerful wizard and to have been outstanding while a student. He specialises in potion making and has talent and passion for the Dark Arts. Sirius claimed that Snape knew more hexes and curses as a first-year student at Hogwarts than most seventh-years knew. Particularly gifted in potion making, Snape added major improvements to his Potions textbook while still a student.
Also as a student, Snape shows a rare gift for discovering new spells. Lupin describes Sectumsempra as Snape's "speciality" in Deathly Hallows. Snape is shown using this spell as a teenager against Harry's father James and in the aerial battle in the last novel when he accidentally hits George Weasley (acting as a Potter decoy) with it while actually aiming for a Death Eater who was trying to attack Lupin, permanently severing George's right ear. Despite Sectumsempra's deadly power, Snape can also heal the wounds it causes. Snape is adept at reversing or containing potentially fatal damage from other dark curses as well, due to his vast knowledge of Dark Arts, as he does when Dumbledore and then Katie Bell are cursed.
Skilful in the arts of Legilimency and especially Occlumency, Snape is able to both access the minds of others and protect his own thoughts—indeed, though Snape does not care for the term himself, Harry forms the uncomfortable impression early in the series that the Potions Master is able to "read minds." Being an Occlumens, Snape is able to keep his betrayal from Voldemort, who is himself described as being "the greatest Legilimens" in history. According to Rowling, Snape is the only Death Eater capable of producing a full Patronus, which, like Lily's, is a doe.
Snape is a talented duellist, able to hold off by himself (if only briefly) a group of three Hogwarts professors that included former duelling champion Filius Flitwick. Professor McGonagall later implies that Snape learned to fly without the use of a broom, a rare skill previously displayed only by Voldemort.

Family
Snape's family background is mostly shown in flashbacks during the course of the last three novels. Snape was born to Eileen Prince, a witch, and Tobias Snape, a Muggle, making him a half-blood (hence the name, "Half-Blood Prince"). This is rare for a Death Eater, as remarked in the last book, though Voldemort himself also had a Muggle father. Snape spent his early childhood living with his parents in a small house in Spinner's End. Snape's family was a poor one and he is described as wearing ill-fitting clothes "that were so mis-matched that it looked deliberate". As a child, Snape was apparently neglected and his parents often fought with one another. Snape was very eager to leave his home to go to Hogwarts. Towards the end of the last novel, Harry draws parallels between his childhood, Snape's, and Voldemort's.

Loyalties
Snape's true loyalty was one of the most significant questions in the series up until the end of the final installment, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. Although the first five novels depict him as unfair and vindictive towards Harry and his friends, he invariably ends up protecting or otherwise helping them when they or their allies are in danger. Several characters express doubts about his loyalty, but Dumbledore's trust in him is generally taken to be the final word. Curiously, the same thing appears to happen on the opposite side, where it is shown that Bellatrix Lestrange mistrusts Snape and only the word of Voldemort seems to protect him from the suspicions of the other Death Eaters. The sixth novel, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, departs from that model. In the second chapter, Snape claims to have been working for Voldemort ever since the latter's return, and only pretending to help Dumbledore. By killing Dumbledore toward the end of the novel, Snape seems to place himself firmly in Voldemort's camp. Rowling maintains this impression through the early chapters of the seventh novel. However, near the climax of the book, Snape leaves Harry his dying thoughts (to be viewed in the Pensieve) and ultimately reveals to Harry that he had been loyal to Albus Dumbledore throughout the series. Snape's fierce devotion to and love of his childhood friend Lily, Harry's mother, is the foundation of that loyalty.
After Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Snape's loyalty was a matter of intense debate among the fans. The issue was given special attention in the marketing campaigns on behalf of the last book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. "Is Snape Good or Evil?" was one of the questions in Scholastic Inc.'s seven-question series, part of its marketing campaign for the book. As part of the Waldenbooks marketing campaign, two free stickers, one that said "Trust Snape" and another that stated "Snape Is A Very Bad Man" were available with the book. Borders published a separate book on the topic, The Great Snape Debate, containing essays and arguments from both sides of the debate.

Reception
The secretive attitude and gradual unfolding of Snape's character was broadly admired, with Stephen Fry, narrator of the UK audiobooks, saying in 2003: "Most characters like Snape are hard to love but there is a sort of ambiguity—you can't quite decide—something sad about him—lonely and it's fascinating when you think he's going to be the evil one..., then slowly you get this idea he's not so bad after all." David Yates, who directed the final four films of the series, also expressed his views on the character, saying: "A character like Snape, where you're not really sure if he's a good guy or a bad guy, that gives you a latent tension... I think the coolest thing you can do with an audience is deny them a little bit of information." Rowling herself described Snape as "a gift of a character". Despite being less than kind, Snape quickly gained popularity within the fandom to a level that surprised Rowling herself, with infatuated fans admiring him and some even deifying him.  Joyce Millman suggests in her essay "To Sir with Love" in the book Mapping the World of Harry Potter, that Snape is derived from a tradition of Byronic heroes such as Wuthering Heights' Heathcliff.
Jenny Sawyer from The Christian Science Monitor commented on the character's development in the series. She claimed that Snape is the only protagonist who genuinely has a choice to make and who struggles to do the right thing, hence the only one to face a "compelling inner crisis". She believed the popularity of the character is due to the moral journey and inner conflict that Snape undergoes within the series, as it is the hero's struggle and costly redemption that really matter: "[Snape's] character ached for resolution. And it is precisely this need for resolution—our desire to know the real Snape and to understand his choices—that makes him the most compelling character in the Potter epic."
The final revelation of Snape's loyalty in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows was viewed positively by fans and critics alike. Daniel Radcliffe, who portrays Harry Potter in the movie series, expressed his delight, saying he was pleased to see that his theory that Snape would end up being a sort of tragic hero came through. Elizabeth Hand from The Washington Post wrote, "The much-maligned loner Snape does not come onstage until the latter part of "Deathly Hallows," but when he does the book becomes his: Snape's fate, more than Voldemort's, perhaps more even than Harry's, is the most heartbreaking, surprising and satisfying of all of Rowling's achievements."
IGN listed Snape as their 4th top Harry Potter character, saying that he makes "quite an impact in the Harry Potter series", and IGN's Joe Utichi called Snape his favourite Harry Potter character and praised his character development. Shortly after the release of the final film, MTV held a public poll for fans to vote for the best character in the series, and Snape was voted #1. Around the same time, Empire magazine held a public poll for fans to vote for the 25 greatest characters in the series, and Snape once again came in at #1. In May 2011, Snape was again voted as the No. 1 favourite Harry Potter character in a public poll held by the Bloomsbury publishing house.

In popular culture
The character of Severus Snape has appeared in various animated parodies of Harry Potter. He is a starring character in Neil Cicierega's online Potter Puppet Pals parodies, and has a centric episode titled Bothering Snape. Also, the video The Mysterious Ticking Noise with the chorus "Snape, Snape, Severus Snape" was the winner for "Best Comedy" of the year 2007 at YouTube; it currently has over 170 million views. Snape is also parodied as Professor Santory Snapekin in Sluggy Freelance's recurring series Torg Potter. In the first parody, Torg mistakenly thinks Professor Snapekin is plotting to achieve ultimate power.
In a 2004 sketch on Saturday Night Live in which Lindsay Lohan appears as Hermione Granger, Snape is portrayed by Will Forte. Snape has also been parodied in UK television. Comic Relief released a story called Harry Potter and the Secret Chamberpot of Azerbaijan, in which Snape is played by Jeremy Irons. Snape appeared in a Harry Potter parody named "Louis Potter and the Philosopher's Scone" in Alistair McGowan's Big Impression show, played by Alistair McGowan himself. In the Harry Bladder sketches in All That, Snape appears as Professor Chafe (portrayed by Jeremy Rowley), whose legs were badly chafed, causing him to be unnecessarily mean. Many sketches feature students brewing potions that did silly things, like enlarge students' behinds, give males large breasts, or change people into bras. In a sketch comedy named "Cooking With..." on Australian TV series The Wedge, Snape is played by Anthony Ahern, and catches Harry and Hermione making love. In Team Starkid's A Very Potter Musical, and its subsequent sequels A Very Potter Sequel and A Very Potter Senior Year, Snape is played by actor Joe Moses.


================================================================================

# Sirius Black

Sirius Black is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. Sirius was first mentioned briefly in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone as a wizard who lent Rubeus Hagrid a flying motorbike shortly after Lord Voldemort killed James and Lily Potter. His character becomes prominent in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, in which he is the titular prisoner, and is also revealed to be the godfather of the central character Harry Potter. He is portrayed in the film adaptations by Gary Oldman.

Character background
Sirius Black is the last heir of the House of Black, a once notable Pure-blood Wizarding family. His parents, Orion and Walburga Black, were both Blacks by birth and second cousins. Sirius had a younger brother, Regulus Arcturus Black, and three older cousins: Bellatrix Lestrange, Andromeda Tonks (his favourite cousin and mother of Nymphadora Tonks), and Narcissa Malfoy (mother of Draco Malfoy). In line with the Black family tradition of naming children after stars and constellations, Sirius was named after the Dog Star. Sirius's early life proved unhappy; he had come to hate most of his relatives, in particular his mother. He rejected his family's pure-blood elitism and reverence for the Dark Arts. At Hogwarts, rather than be sorted into Slytherin like the rest of his family, Sirius was placed in Gryffindor.
In contrast to his home life, Sirius greatly enjoyed life at Hogwarts, where he was inseparable from his best friend, James Potter. Sirius and James were immensely popular and known for their exceptionally good looks. Students liked his biting humour, and teachers respected his intelligence, though not his behaviour. His popularity was not universal, as a mutual hatred sprang up between James and Severus Snape. Sirius actively supported James, leading to Snape developing an equal and lifelong loathing of Sirius. Sirius and James often went out of their way to bully Snape, whom they despised for his great interest in the Dark Arts. They also became best friends with Peter Pettigrew and Remus Lupin, whom they later discovered was a werewolf. To support Remus, Sirius, James, and Peter secretly became Animagi, which allowed them to safely accompany Remus during his transformations and keep him under control. Sirius's form is that of a huge black dog, from which his nickname Padfoot was derived.
Sirius ran away from home at the age of sixteen and took refuge with James and his parents. His outraged mother burned his name off the family tree. Sirius's Uncle Alphard left him a large inheritance, causing Sirius's mother to also remove Alphard's name. He was left financially independent by his uncle's generous bequest. After leaving school, Sirius fought against Voldemort, eventually joining the Order of the Phoenix. He remained close friends with James and eventually attended James and Lily Evans' (now Lily Potter) wedding as their best man. When their son, Harry, was born, Lily and James named Sirius as Harry's godfather.
When the Potters became aware that Harry was Voldemort's specific target, Albus Dumbledore advised them to go into hiding using the Fidelius Charm, a highly complex spell allowing a secret to be concealed within another person. Trusting Sirius above all of their other friends, Lily and James wanted him to be their Secret Keeper. Sirius, however, worried that Voldemort would immediately suspect him of being the Potters' Secret Keeper and would target him; so he convinced the Potters to reassign Pettigrew as their Secret Keeper because he did not believe Voldemort would ever suspect a "weak, talentless thing" like Pettigrew. As it turned out, Pettigrew was Voldemort's spy within the Order. He betrayed the Potters to Voldemort, who subsequently tracked them down and murdered them.
After giving his motorbike to Hagrid so that Hagrid could deliver Harry to the Dursleys, Sirius then tracked down Pettigrew, determined to kill him in revenge. However, Pettigrew outwitted him: confronted by Sirius on a city street, he created an explosion, faking his own death (leaving a severed finger behind as evidence) and killing twelve Muggles in the process. Sirius was arrested, accused of murdering Pettigrew and the Muggles and of serving Voldemort, and was promptly thrown in prison by Barty Crouch, Sr. without receiving a trial. He spent the next twelve years in Azkaban, brooding over his friends' deaths and obsessing over Pettigrew's betrayal. Sirius states that, unlike most other Azkaban prisoners (who often became insane during their terms of imprisonment), he was able to keep his sanity because he knew he was innocent, and also used his Animagus form to ward off the Dementors, who are unable to perceive unsophisticated canine minds.

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Twelve years into his sentence, Sirius sees a picture of the Weasley family on the front cover of the Daily Prophet. He notices the pet rat Scabbers perched on Ron Weasley's shoulder. This serves as a turning point in the series and sets the events of the third novel in motion, as Sirius immediately recognises Scabbers as Pettigrew's Animagus form. He realises that stationed at Hogwarts, Pettigrew will easily be able to deliver Harry to Voldemort should Voldemort ever regain power. This knowledge clears his mind and gives him the mental strength to escape Azkaban. He is the first person known to have escaped the wizard prison by his own means, accomplishing this feat by transforming into his Animagus dog form. The dementors' inability to detect Animagi, along with his severe weight loss from malnutrition, allows him to slip through his cell bars. After his escape, Sirius takes refuge in and around Hogsmeade, intent on exacting revenge upon Pettigrew and remaining near Harry. Knowing that the dementors have been stationed around Hogsmeade and at Hogwarts, Sirius remains in his Animagus form during this time, and is able to enter the Hogwarts grounds without being recognised by the dementors. Harry catches several glimpses of Sirius in his dog form and mistakenly believes him to be the Grim. He befriends Hermione Granger's cat Crookshanks, who is aware that Sirius is not actually a dog and who recognises Pettigrew for what he really is. Sirius breaks into Gryffindor Tower at one point with a knife, looking for Pettigrew, having had Crookshanks obtain Neville Longbottom's list of the dorm passwords, and shreds Ron's curtains after finding Pettigrew gone, due to Pettigrew having faked his death and framed Crookshanks. After Harry's broom is destroyed by the Whomping Willow during a Quidditch match invaded by Dementors, Sirius anonymously sends Harry a Firebolt as a Christmas gift, although it is confiscated by Professor McGonagall on suspicion that the broom is jinxed.
Towards the end of the novel, Harry, Ron, and Hermione confront Sirius, and Harry nearly kills him; however, Lupin's timely intervention stops Harry. Lupin, who has learned that Sirius is innocent, is reunited in friendship with him. Pettigrew is unmasked, and, most importantly, Harry stops Sirius and Lupin from murdering Pettigrew, arguing that his father would not want his friends to commit murder. Harry begins to view Sirius as a surrogate father, although events swiftly turn against him again – Pettigrew escapes, and Sirius is captured by the dementors at Hogwarts and sentenced to the Dementor's Kiss, a fate worse than death. Harry and Hermione help him escape with Buckbeak, a hippogriff who had also been unjustly condemned. Sirius is once again a wanted man.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Sirius flees Europe to escape from the Ministry of Magic. There, he slowly recovers from his years in Azkaban and regains his health. Although he can only communicate sparingly with Harry by owl post, he gives Harry reasoned and sensible advice. Harry grows closer to Sirius and relies on his help. Sirius, worried, returns to Britain when Harry tells him that his scar has begun hurting him again (a signal of Voldemort's presence), and when there are reports of Death Eater activities at the Quidditch World Cup. He sacrifices some of his regained health to help Harry; by the time he reaches Hogsmeade, he is once again gaunt and dishevelled, hiding in a cave with Buckbeak and surviving mainly on rats (with occasional gifts of food from Harry, Ron, and Hermione). He is later summoned to Hogwarts by Dumbledore and listens to Harry's re-telling of Voldemort's rebirth. Dumbledore tasks him with alerting Lupin, Arabella Figg, Mundungus Fletcher, and other members of the Order of the Phoenix, and is instructed by Dumbledore to lie low at Lupin's for a while. Sirius reassures Harry, who does not want him to leave, that they will see each other again soon and then departs.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Sirius takes refuge in his family home at Number 12, Grimmauld Place. As the last Black, Sirius inherits the property and allows it to be used as the Order headquarters, although it has fallen into disrepair. Due to the ongoing manhunt, Sirius is confined there. His confinement causes depression, and he is frequently withdrawn and antagonistic – especially so by Snape's increasingly important role within the Order. The hostility between himself and Kreacher, his demented house-elf, also affects him, and he is consistently hateful towards Kreacher. When he briefly leaves the house to see Harry off to Hogwarts, his Animagus form is recognised by Draco and Lucius Malfoy, resulting in more threats and warnings. Harry and Sirius stay in touch through owls and the Floo Network, a system to communicate through fireplaces. Sirius is nearly captured by Dolores Umbridge, a Ministry official who is monitoring the Network and the owl mail in and out of Hogwarts. Near the middle of the novel, a large number of Death Eaters, including Sirius's cousin Bellatrix, escape Azkaban. The Ministry, which refuses to accept that Voldemort has returned and that the dementors have joined him, tries to blame Sirius, stating that he helped the prisoners escape and is leading them.
Sirius encourages Harry to oppose Umbridge and her reforms and strongly approves of Harry starting the secret defensive tutorial group for students, Dumbledore's Army. He also willingly answers Harry's questions about the Order and Voldemort. Lupin and Molly Weasley express disapproval for Sirius's behaviour around Harry, stating that Sirius treats his godson as if he is James, Harry's father, and that this is inappropriate.
Voldemort plants a false vision in Harry's mind that shows Sirius being tortured at the Department of Mysteries. Harry and his friends rush to the Department, where they are ambushed by Death Eaters. Meanwhile, Snape alerts the Order that the students have gone to the Ministry. The Order immediately sends a rescue team including Remus Lupin, Nymphadora Tonks, Alastor Moody, and Kingsley Shacklebolt. Sirius, desperate for any time out of his confinement, comes along too.
The Order battles the Death Eaters in the Department of Mysteries. During a frenzied duel with Bellatrix, Sirius taunts her for failing to harm him. Bellatrix strikes Sirius with a curse, sending him backwards into the veil and to his death. Later, Dumbledore persuades the Minister that Sirius is innocent. By the following book, Sirius is exonerated. Dumbledore refers to this as "a brutal ending to what was going to be a long and happy relationship". Harry is left to mourn Sirius, reflecting that, despite his flaws, he was a loving and protective godfather, and the closest thing Harry had ever had to a real parent. Harry inherits all of Sirius's possessions, including the house at Grimmauld Place, the house-elf Kreacher, and Buckbeak the Hippogriff.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Sirius makes his final appearance in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows when Harry discovers the Resurrection Stone within the golden snitch. Appearing as a ghostly figure alongside Lily, James, and Lupin, Sirius supports Harry's walk into death and assures him that dying is "Quicker and easier than falling asleep." He also promises Harry that the four will always remain a part of him.
Rowling revealed a family tree in the J. K. Rowling Documentary on ITV concerning all of the grandchildren of the Weasley family. In this family tree, it is known that Harry named his first son James Sirius, after his father and godfather.

Harry Potter prequel
Sirius and James are the protagonists of an 800-word story set three years before Harry's birth. The two friends are riding Sirius's motorbike and are chased by two Muggle policemen for breaking the speed limit. The policemen attempt to arrest them when three Death Eaters on broomsticks fly down towards them. Sirius and James use the police car as a barrier, and the Death Eaters crash into it. In the end, they escape from the policemen flying on the motorbike.

Portrayal in films
Sirius is portrayed by Gary Oldman in the Harry Potter film adaptations. Oldman revealed that he accepted the part because he needed the money, as he had not taken on any major work in several years in order to spend more time with his family. The actor compared Sirius to John Lennon, and also said he was "surprised by how difficult it was to pull off", comparing the role to Shakespearean dialogue. Oldman suggested Sirius' hairstyle, while Alfonso Cuarón, the director of the third film, designed his tattoos. He had read the first book, and his children were fans of the series. The part made Oldman a hero with his children and their schoolmates. Oldman said about his work in the Harry Potter films that he has "...done so much R-rated work, it's nice to have a job you can show your kids". Oldman was not aware of the character's early death when he took on the role, and has said that had he known, he would have approached the role differently.
Though Sirius appears several times during Goblet of Fire, the character appears very briefly in the film adaptation, in an expository scene in the Gryffindor common room's fireplace, with Oldman providing the voice. Oldman appears again in Order of the Phoenix. It has been stated that Oldman and Daniel Radcliffe became very close during the filming of the series. Sirius as a teenager also made a brief appearance in Order of the Phoenix, played by James Walters.
Just as in the book, Sirius returns via the Resurrection Stone in The Deathly Hallows – Part 2 alongside James, Lily, and Remus right before Harry enters the Forbidden Forest to face Voldemort. The character is referenced for the final time in the last scene, where it is revealed that Harry and Ginny's first born son was named after both James and Sirius.

Characterisation

Outward appearance
Sirius is described as a tall man with long, black hair and grey eyes. Several times during the series, Sirius is stated to be very good-looking and "carelessly handsome" prior to his imprisonment; Harry also noted that as a teenager, Sirius always had a slightly spoiled, haughty look on his face. His long years in Azkaban made his face gaunt, and lack of grooming resulted in long, dirty hair and yellow teeth. Harry's first impression of Sirius is of a corpse.

Personality
As a student at Hogwarts, Sirius was well-known for being a troublemaker, and once mentioned to Harry that he, James, Lupin, and Pettigrew "were all idiots". He said he was not appointed a prefect because he spent too much time in detention with James. Sirius is protective of Harry, but also encourages him to take unwise risks and sometimes – inappropriately – acts with him as he used to with James. On this, the author commented that "what Harry craves is a father." Rowling has stated that though she likes Sirius, "I do not think he is wholly wonderful." According to her, despite being brave and loyal, Sirius is also reckless, embittered, and "slightly unbalanced by his long stay in Azkaban." When asked if Harry has a godmother, Rowling replied that "Sirius was always too busy being a big rebel to get married."
Unlike his parents and brother, Sirius detested the Dark Arts and did not believe in the so-called purity of blood. Rowling has said that Sirius has also proven to "be very good at spouting bits of excellent personal philosophy, but he does not always live up to them". This primarily has to do with his treatment of Kreacher the house-elf; because Kreacher was a reminder to Sirius of the home he had always hated (and also due to Kreacher's parading of the attitudes and views of Sirius's parents), Sirius is hateful to Kreacher and consistently mistreats him. This, in turn, comes back to haunt him, as Kreacher eventually betrays Sirius to Voldemort, leading to Sirius's death. Rowling has also stated that, unlike Lupin, who is the same age as Sirius and appears more mature in nature, Sirius never really grew up, as he was placed in Azkaban during his early twenties and therefore had not had a very normal adult life. Despite all of this, Rowling states that Sirius's "redeeming quality is the affection that he is capable of feeling. He loved James like a brother and went on to transfer this attachment to Harry."

Reception
Writers at IGN said that Sirius has an "edgy, rebellious appeal" and a "truly badass vibe at times". They said that what most appeals to them about the character is the father-son relationship that begins to form between him and Harry before Sirius's death.

Cultural impact
In January 2006, Rowling donated a hand-drawn version of the Black family tree to a Book Aid International charity auction. The tree shows the members of the ancient Black family and their links by marriage to a number of other wizard families that appear in the novels. The tree was purchased for £30,000 on behalf of Daniel Radcliffe, who plays Harry Potter in the film series.


================================================================================

# Sirius Black

Sirius Black is a fictional character in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. Sirius was first mentioned briefly in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone as a wizard who lent Rubeus Hagrid a flying motorbike shortly after Lord Voldemort killed James and Lily Potter. His character becomes prominent in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, in which he is the titular prisoner, and is also revealed to be the godfather of the central character Harry Potter. He is portrayed in the film adaptations by Gary Oldman.

Character background
Sirius Black is the last heir of the House of Black, a once notable Pure-blood Wizarding family. His parents, Orion and Walburga Black, were both Blacks by birth and second cousins. Sirius had a younger brother, Regulus Arcturus Black, and three older cousins: Bellatrix Lestrange, Andromeda Tonks (his favourite cousin and mother of Nymphadora Tonks), and Narcissa Malfoy (mother of Draco Malfoy). In line with the Black family tradition of naming children after stars and constellations, Sirius was named after the Dog Star. Sirius's early life proved unhappy; he had come to hate most of his relatives, in particular his mother. He rejected his family's pure-blood elitism and reverence for the Dark Arts. At Hogwarts, rather than be sorted into Slytherin like the rest of his family, Sirius was placed in Gryffindor.
In contrast to his home life, Sirius greatly enjoyed life at Hogwarts, where he was inseparable from his best friend, James Potter. Sirius and James were immensely popular and known for their exceptionally good looks. Students liked his biting humour, and teachers respected his intelligence, though not his behaviour. His popularity was not universal, as a mutual hatred sprang up between James and Severus Snape. Sirius actively supported James, leading to Snape developing an equal and lifelong loathing of Sirius. Sirius and James often went out of their way to bully Snape, whom they despised for his great interest in the Dark Arts. They also became best friends with Peter Pettigrew and Remus Lupin, whom they later discovered was a werewolf. To support Remus, Sirius, James, and Peter secretly became Animagi, which allowed them to safely accompany Remus during his transformations and keep him under control. Sirius's form is that of a huge black dog, from which his nickname Padfoot was derived.
Sirius ran away from home at the age of sixteen and took refuge with James and his parents. His outraged mother burned his name off the family tree. Sirius's Uncle Alphard left him a large inheritance, causing Sirius's mother to also remove Alphard's name. He was left financially independent by his uncle's generous bequest. After leaving school, Sirius fought against Voldemort, eventually joining the Order of the Phoenix. He remained close friends with James and eventually attended James and Lily Evans' (now Lily Potter) wedding as their best man. When their son, Harry, was born, Lily and James named Sirius as Harry's godfather.
When the Potters became aware that Harry was Voldemort's specific target, Albus Dumbledore advised them to go into hiding using the Fidelius Charm, a highly complex spell allowing a secret to be concealed within another person. Trusting Sirius above all of their other friends, Lily and James wanted him to be their Secret Keeper. Sirius, however, worried that Voldemort would immediately suspect him of being the Potters' Secret Keeper and would target him; so he convinced the Potters to reassign Pettigrew as their Secret Keeper because he did not believe Voldemort would ever suspect a "weak, talentless thing" like Pettigrew. As it turned out, Pettigrew was Voldemort's spy within the Order. He betrayed the Potters to Voldemort, who subsequently tracked them down and murdered them.
After giving his motorbike to Hagrid so that Hagrid could deliver Harry to the Dursleys, Sirius then tracked down Pettigrew, determined to kill him in revenge. However, Pettigrew outwitted him: confronted by Sirius on a city street, he created an explosion, faking his own death (leaving a severed finger behind as evidence) and killing twelve Muggles in the process. Sirius was arrested, accused of murdering Pettigrew and the Muggles and of serving Voldemort, and was promptly thrown in prison by Barty Crouch, Sr. without receiving a trial. He spent the next twelve years in Azkaban, brooding over his friends' deaths and obsessing over Pettigrew's betrayal. Sirius states that, unlike most other Azkaban prisoners (who often became insane during their terms of imprisonment), he was able to keep his sanity because he knew he was innocent, and also used his Animagus form to ward off the Dementors, who are unable to perceive unsophisticated canine minds.

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Twelve years into his sentence, Sirius sees a picture of the Weasley family on the front cover of the Daily Prophet. He notices the pet rat Scabbers perched on Ron Weasley's shoulder. This serves as a turning point in the series and sets the events of the third novel in motion, as Sirius immediately recognises Scabbers as Pettigrew's Animagus form. He realises that stationed at Hogwarts, Pettigrew will easily be able to deliver Harry to Voldemort should Voldemort ever regain power. This knowledge clears his mind and gives him the mental strength to escape Azkaban. He is the first person known to have escaped the wizard prison by his own means, accomplishing this feat by transforming into his Animagus dog form. The dementors' inability to detect Animagi, along with his severe weight loss from malnutrition, allows him to slip through his cell bars. After his escape, Sirius takes refuge in and around Hogsmeade, intent on exacting revenge upon Pettigrew and remaining near Harry. Knowing that the dementors have been stationed around Hogsmeade and at Hogwarts, Sirius remains in his Animagus form during this time, and is able to enter the Hogwarts grounds without being recognised by the dementors. Harry catches several glimpses of Sirius in his dog form and mistakenly believes him to be the Grim. He befriends Hermione Granger's cat Crookshanks, who is aware that Sirius is not actually a dog and who recognises Pettigrew for what he really is. Sirius breaks into Gryffindor Tower at one point with a knife, looking for Pettigrew, having had Crookshanks obtain Neville Longbottom's list of the dorm passwords, and shreds Ron's curtains after finding Pettigrew gone, due to Pettigrew having faked his death and framed Crookshanks. After Harry's broom is destroyed by the Whomping Willow during a Quidditch match invaded by Dementors, Sirius anonymously sends Harry a Firebolt as a Christmas gift, although it is confiscated by Professor McGonagall on suspicion that the broom is jinxed.
Towards the end of the novel, Harry, Ron, and Hermione confront Sirius, and Harry nearly kills him; however, Lupin's timely intervention stops Harry. Lupin, who has learned that Sirius is innocent, is reunited in friendship with him. Pettigrew is unmasked, and, most importantly, Harry stops Sirius and Lupin from murdering Pettigrew, arguing that his father would not want his friends to commit murder. Harry begins to view Sirius as a surrogate father, although events swiftly turn against him again – Pettigrew escapes, and Sirius is captured by the dementors at Hogwarts and sentenced to the Dementor's Kiss, a fate worse than death. Harry and Hermione help him escape with Buckbeak, a hippogriff who had also been unjustly condemned. Sirius is once again a wanted man.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Sirius flees Europe to escape from the Ministry of Magic. There, he slowly recovers from his years in Azkaban and regains his health. Although he can only communicate sparingly with Harry by owl post, he gives Harry reasoned and sensible advice. Harry grows closer to Sirius and relies on his help. Sirius, worried, returns to Britain when Harry tells him that his scar has begun hurting him again (a signal of Voldemort's presence), and when there are reports of Death Eater activities at the Quidditch World Cup. He sacrifices some of his regained health to help Harry; by the time he reaches Hogsmeade, he is once again gaunt and dishevelled, hiding in a cave with Buckbeak and surviving mainly on rats (with occasional gifts of food from Harry, Ron, and Hermione). He is later summoned to Hogwarts by Dumbledore and listens to Harry's re-telling of Voldemort's rebirth. Dumbledore tasks him with alerting Lupin, Arabella Figg, Mundungus Fletcher, and other members of the Order of the Phoenix, and is instructed by Dumbledore to lie low at Lupin's for a while. Sirius reassures Harry, who does not want him to leave, that they will see each other again soon and then departs.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Sirius takes refuge in his family home at Number 12, Grimmauld Place. As the last Black, Sirius inherits the property and allows it to be used as the Order headquarters, although it has fallen into disrepair. Due to the ongoing manhunt, Sirius is confined there. His confinement causes depression, and he is frequently withdrawn and antagonistic – especially so by Snape's increasingly important role within the Order. The hostility between himself and Kreacher, his demented house-elf, also affects him, and he is consistently hateful towards Kreacher. When he briefly leaves the house to see Harry off to Hogwarts, his Animagus form is recognised by Draco and Lucius Malfoy, resulting in more threats and warnings. Harry and Sirius stay in touch through owls and the Floo Network, a system to communicate through fireplaces. Sirius is nearly captured by Dolores Umbridge, a Ministry official who is monitoring the Network and the owl mail in and out of Hogwarts. Near the middle of the novel, a large number of Death Eaters, including Sirius's cousin Bellatrix, escape Azkaban. The Ministry, which refuses to accept that Voldemort has returned and that the dementors have joined him, tries to blame Sirius, stating that he helped the prisoners escape and is leading them.
Sirius encourages Harry to oppose Umbridge and her reforms and strongly approves of Harry starting the secret defensive tutorial group for students, Dumbledore's Army. He also willingly answers Harry's questions about the Order and Voldemort. Lupin and Molly Weasley express disapproval for Sirius's behaviour around Harry, stating that Sirius treats his godson as if he is James, Harry's father, and that this is inappropriate.
Voldemort plants a false vision in Harry's mind that shows Sirius being tortured at the Department of Mysteries. Harry and his friends rush to the Department, where they are ambushed by Death Eaters. Meanwhile, Snape alerts the Order that the students have gone to the Ministry. The Order immediately sends a rescue team including Remus Lupin, Nymphadora Tonks, Alastor Moody, and Kingsley Shacklebolt. Sirius, desperate for any time out of his confinement, comes along too.
The Order battles the Death Eaters in the Department of Mysteries. During a frenzied duel with Bellatrix, Sirius taunts her for failing to harm him. Bellatrix strikes Sirius with a curse, sending him backwards into the veil and to his death. Later, Dumbledore persuades the Minister that Sirius is innocent. By the following book, Sirius is exonerated. Dumbledore refers to this as "a brutal ending to what was going to be a long and happy relationship". Harry is left to mourn Sirius, reflecting that, despite his flaws, he was a loving and protective godfather, and the closest thing Harry had ever had to a real parent. Harry inherits all of Sirius's possessions, including the house at Grimmauld Place, the house-elf Kreacher, and Buckbeak the Hippogriff.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Sirius makes his final appearance in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows when Harry discovers the Resurrection Stone within the golden snitch. Appearing as a ghostly figure alongside Lily, James, and Lupin, Sirius supports Harry's walk into death and assures him that dying is "Quicker and easier than falling asleep." He also promises Harry that the four will always remain a part of him.
Rowling revealed a family tree in the J. K. Rowling Documentary on ITV concerning all of the grandchildren of the Weasley family. In this family tree, it is known that Harry named his first son James Sirius, after his father and godfather.

Harry Potter prequel
Sirius and James are the protagonists of an 800-word story set three years before Harry's birth. The two friends are riding Sirius's motorbike and are chased by two Muggle policemen for breaking the speed limit. The policemen attempt to arrest them when three Death Eaters on broomsticks fly down towards them. Sirius and James use the police car as a barrier, and the Death Eaters crash into it. In the end, they escape from the policemen flying on the motorbike.

Portrayal in films
Sirius is portrayed by Gary Oldman in the Harry Potter film adaptations. Oldman revealed that he accepted the part because he needed the money, as he had not taken on any major work in several years in order to spend more time with his family. The actor compared Sirius to John Lennon, and also said he was "surprised by how difficult it was to pull off", comparing the role to Shakespearean dialogue. Oldman suggested Sirius' hairstyle, while Alfonso Cuarón, the director of the third film, designed his tattoos. He had read the first book, and his children were fans of the series. The part made Oldman a hero with his children and their schoolmates. Oldman said about his work in the Harry Potter films that he has "...done so much R-rated work, it's nice to have a job you can show your kids". Oldman was not aware of the character's early death when he took on the role, and has said that had he known, he would have approached the role differently.
Though Sirius appears several times during Goblet of Fire, the character appears very briefly in the film adaptation, in an expository scene in the Gryffindor common room's fireplace, with Oldman providing the voice. Oldman appears again in Order of the Phoenix. It has been stated that Oldman and Daniel Radcliffe became very close during the filming of the series. Sirius as a teenager also made a brief appearance in Order of the Phoenix, played by James Walters.
Just as in the book, Sirius returns via the Resurrection Stone in The Deathly Hallows – Part 2 alongside James, Lily, and Remus right before Harry enters the Forbidden Forest to face Voldemort. The character is referenced for the final time in the last scene, where it is revealed that Harry and Ginny's first born son was named after both James and Sirius.

Characterisation

Outward appearance
Sirius is described as a tall man with long, black hair and grey eyes. Several times during the series, Sirius is stated to be very good-looking and "carelessly handsome" prior to his imprisonment; Harry also noted that as a teenager, Sirius always had a slightly spoiled, haughty look on his face. His long years in Azkaban made his face gaunt, and lack of grooming resulted in long, dirty hair and yellow teeth. Harry's first impression of Sirius is of a corpse.

Personality
As a student at Hogwarts, Sirius was well-known for being a troublemaker, and once mentioned to Harry that he, James, Lupin, and Pettigrew "were all idiots". He said he was not appointed a prefect because he spent too much time in detention with James. Sirius is protective of Harry, but also encourages him to take unwise risks and sometimes – inappropriately – acts with him as he used to with James. On this, the author commented that "what Harry craves is a father." Rowling has stated that though she likes Sirius, "I do not think he is wholly wonderful." According to her, despite being brave and loyal, Sirius is also reckless, embittered, and "slightly unbalanced by his long stay in Azkaban." When asked if Harry has a godmother, Rowling replied that "Sirius was always too busy being a big rebel to get married."
Unlike his parents and brother, Sirius detested the Dark Arts and did not believe in the so-called purity of blood. Rowling has said that Sirius has also proven to "be very good at spouting bits of excellent personal philosophy, but he does not always live up to them". This primarily has to do with his treatment of Kreacher the house-elf; because Kreacher was a reminder to Sirius of the home he had always hated (and also due to Kreacher's parading of the attitudes and views of Sirius's parents), Sirius is hateful to Kreacher and consistently mistreats him. This, in turn, comes back to haunt him, as Kreacher eventually betrays Sirius to Voldemort, leading to Sirius's death. Rowling has also stated that, unlike Lupin, who is the same age as Sirius and appears more mature in nature, Sirius never really grew up, as he was placed in Azkaban during his early twenties and therefore had not had a very normal adult life. Despite all of this, Rowling states that Sirius's "redeeming quality is the affection that he is capable of feeling. He loved James like a brother and went on to transfer this attachment to Harry."

Reception
Writers at IGN said that Sirius has an "edgy, rebellious appeal" and a "truly badass vibe at times". They said that what most appeals to them about the character is the father-son relationship that begins to form between him and Harry before Sirius's death.

Cultural impact
In January 2006, Rowling donated a hand-drawn version of the Black family tree to a Book Aid International charity auction. The tree shows the members of the ancient Black family and their links by marriage to a number of other wizard families that appear in the novels. The tree was purchased for £30,000 on behalf of Daniel Radcliffe, who plays Harry Potter in the film series.


================================================================================

# The Secret of Platform 13

The Secret of Platform 13 is a children's novel by Eva Ibbotson, and illustrated by Sue Porter, first published in 1994. The book has gained extra significance as many readers find it similar to the Harry Potter series by J.K. Rowling.

Summary
Platform 13 of King's Cross Station in London has been closed for years. Changes to the platform always result in failure for mysterious reasons. The reason is that the platform hides a gump, described as an "opening that opens once every nine years for nine days". The gump leads to the Island, a wonderful mythical paradise filled with both normal and magical creatures such as giants, mermaids, water nymphs, wizards, witches, hags and merrows, people who married mermaids/mermen.
Shortly before the gump opens, the Queen gives birth to a baby boy. The three nurses for the baby Prince are overcome with their homesickness for the land where they grew up and wish to visit London when the gump reopens. They are given permission to do so and bring the Prince with them. On the ninth day, however, the three nurses go to a fish and chip shop but decide not to take the baby inside. Instead, one of the nurses sits outside with the baby while her two sisters buy fish and chips for three. In the garage nearby a woman called Mrs. Trottle, who is desperate for a child, is sitting in her car. After the nurse falls asleep on the bench, Mrs. Trottle steals and drives away with the baby prince, having placed a china doll in the place of the prince. Nanny Brown, who was Mrs. Trottle's nurse as a child, is horrified by the kidnapping. Mrs. Trottle threatens to call the police if Nanny dares to tell anyone and decides to name the baby "Raymond". She goes away to Switzerland for a year and pretends she has had the baby there. She is a preposterously rich woman who does not work; she claims her husband's income is five hundred thousand pounds a year.
Back at the Island, the three nurses only discover the prince is gone when it is too late and the gump has closed again. The King and Queen are heartbroken and for the next nine years the Island is in deepest mourning. To rescue the prince, the king and queen organise a group who will venture into London the next time the gump opens. The group consists of a giant, Hans (who was made invisible so he wouldn't stand out), a "slightly batty" fey, Gurkintrude, a wizard, Cornelius, better known as Cor, and a young hag named Odge, who joined because she was the same age as the prince would be and felt a sense of kinship to him as a result, and also brought a present. Odge feels she is a disappointment to her parents and therefore wants to do something big in life to make up for it. Her sisters are all impressive hags who have stripy feet, fingernails so long they can dig the garden with them, black hairs like piano wires coming out of their ears, and blue teeth. Odge is the seventh daughter of a seventh daughter, which is supposed to be special, but when Odge was born she is almost a perfectly ordinary person. Disappointed, Odge's mother did not name her any fearsome name, but Odge, because it rhymes with Splodge, (after Odge's aunt said she looked like "a small pink splodge") and hoped that Odge would improve as she got older. Odge does have one blue tooth, but it is a molar and right at the back of her mouth, and she has a very, very small bump on one foot which she thought was an extra toe for a while, but wasn't. Odge feels that her parents, especially her mother, can never get over just how different Odge is from all her sisters, especially her oldest sister, Fredegonda, who is the fiercest and hairiest of all her sisters.
When the gump opens, the rescuers are directed to the Trottle house by the ghosts that live in Platform 13. There they see Raymond Trottle, who has grown up to be fat, lazy, and very spoiled. He seems to rely on his telly, his computer games and his remote control cars. They also meet the household servant, a boy named Ben who was raised by Nanny Brown. Ben is the exact opposite of Raymond and immediately feels comfortable with the group and befriends Odge.
The group begins to observe Raymond and after some time arranges for him to meet them in the park where they arrange for various magical creatures to perform a show for him. Though Raymond is unimpressed by the magical performance, he is delighted to discover that he is really a prince and agrees to return to the Island. Odge tries to convince Ben to come to the Island as well, but he refuses as Nanny is very ill and in the hospital.
Raymond mysteriously vanishes the next day however, and the group discovers that he told Mrs. Trottle of the plan. Believing that strangers intended to kidnap her child, she took him into hiding at a fancy hotel with several bodyguards. The group hatch a plan to take Raymond back, but everything falls apart when Ben is knocked out and nearly killed by one of the bodyguards. Given the choice of taking Raymond or rescuing Ben, the group chooses to save Ben. Raymond is abducted later by a swarm of harpies that the king and queen send and is successfully brought to the Island.
Meanwhile, Nanny Brown has died and left behind a letter, in which she reveals Ben's true identity as the stolen baby, with Raymond actually having been born to Mrs. Trottle in Switzerland. Ben arrives through the gump with Odge shortly after Raymond and is instantly recognized by his parents and hailed as a prince. Raymond is hastily sent back through the gump and returned home, and Odge later accepts Ben’s invitation to live in the castle with him.

Similarity to Harry Potter
The book has gained extra significance as many readers find it similar to the Harry Potter series by J.K. Rowling, as the first book of that series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was published in 1997, three years after this book was published. (They both mention a platform on Kings Cross Station, in London, that leads to a different world.) As journalist Amanda Craig has written, "Ibbotson would seem to have at least as good a case for claiming plagiarism as the American author currently suing J. K. Rowling, but unlike her, Ibbotson says she would 'like to shake her by the hand. I think we all borrow from each other as writers.'"


================================================================================

# The Wizarding World of Harry Potter

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter is a chain of themed areas at Universal Destinations & Experiences based on the Harry Potter media franchise, adapting elements from the Warner Bros.' film series and original novels by J. K. Rowling. The areas were designed by Universal Creative from an exclusive license with Warner Bros. Entertainment.

Background
A Harry Potter-themed attraction at either a Disney or Universal park was rumored in 2003. However, the rights to the Harry Potter franchise had been acquired by Warner Bros., who denied all rumors. Both Disney and Universal entered bidding negotiations with Warner Bros. and Rowling for the theme park rights to Harry Potter. In 2004, sources reported that Rowling was considering a deal with Disney, with the company intending to develop a Harry Potter section within an area of Fantasyland at the Magic Kingdom park at Walt Disney World. In January 2007, About.com reported a rumor from a "highly credible source" that the Universal Islands of Adventure park's Merlinwood section of the Lost Continent area was going to be re-themed "to the stories and characters of one of the most popular children's franchises". Other sources followed up in the next few days with unofficial confirmation that the new area would involve Harry Potter. On May 31, 2007, Universal, in partnership with Warner Bros., officially announced the Wizarding World of Harry Potter would be added to Islands of Adventure.

Parks

Universal Orlando Resort

All three theme parks at the Universal Orlando Resort in Orlando, Florida –  Universal Islands of Adventure, Universal Studios Florida and Universal Epic Universe – have Wizarding World of Harry Potter themed environments.  The two formers include Hogwarts Express stations allowing passengers to reach both theme parks aboard the full-scale replica of the train that appears in the film series.

Universal Islands of Adventure

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened at Universal Islands of Adventure on June 18, 2010. It includes a re-creation of Hogsmeade and three rides. The flagship attraction is Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, which exists within a re-creation of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. A new roller coaster, Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure, which replaced the Dragon Challenge, opened on June 13, 2019. Other rides include Flight of the Hippogriff, a family roller coaster, and the Hogwarts Express. Other attractions include Ollivanders Wand Shop, the Triwizard Spirit Rally, and the Frog Choir. Hogsmeade contains many gift shops and restaurants from the book series including Dervish and Banges, Honeydukes, Ollivanders, the Three Broomsticks, and the Hog's Head.

Universal Studios Florida

At the Universal Studios Florida theme park, another Wizarding World of Harry Potter land opened on July 8, 2014. It includes a re-creation of Diagon Alley and connecting alleys, as well as a small section of Muggle London. It includes the rides Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts and the Hogwarts Express. Other attractions include Ollivanders Wand Shop, a puppet performance of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, and a live performance by Celestina Warbeck and the Banshees. The area also contains many shops and restaurants from the book series including The Leaky Cauldron, Ollivanders Wand Shop, Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, Borgin and Burkes, Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions, Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment, and Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlour.

Universal Epic Universe

A third land in the Wizarding World, the Ministry of Magic, opened as part of Universal Epic Universe on May 22, 2025 with attractions based on both the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts film series. A theatrical show Le Cirque Arcanus is included in 1920s wizarding Paris. The land also features many shops, restaurants, and experiences, as well as a location where guests can time travel by Métro-Floo to the 1990s British Ministry of Magic. The sole ride in the Ministry of Magic land is Harry Potter and the Battle at the Ministry.
Cosme Acajor Baguettes Magique sells character wands that can be used throughout all three Wizarding World of Harry Potter themed environments at Universal Orlando Resort, along with an exclusive line of wands unique to Cosme Acajor Baguettes Magique.

Universal Studios Japan

At the Universal Studios Japan theme park in Osaka, Japan, the Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened on July 15, 2014. It includes the village of Hogsmeade, Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey ride, and Flight of the Hippogriff roller coaster. Two features in the Japanese park not found in Orlando or Hollywood is Hogwarts' Black Lake. From 2014 to 2018, the land also featured two live great horned owls tied to a pedestal, but this has been discontinued.

Universal Studios Hollywood

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened at Universal Studios Hollywood on April 7, 2016, Replacing The Adventures of Curious George which closed on September 6, 2013. The flagship attraction is the flight-simulating ride Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, similar to the Orlando one. Visitors once wore Quidditch-inspired 3D goggles throughout the ride for an enhanced ride experience, but the 3D visuals have recently been replaced by 2D.

Universal Studios Beijing

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened as part of Universal Studios Beijing on September 20, 2021. This area features the familiar village of Hogsmeade and the towering Hogwarts Castle. The main attraction is the Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey flight-simulating ride, which is similar to the version in other Universal parks. Another notable ride is the family-friendly coaster, Flight of the Hippogriff. Visitors can also experience the wand-choosing show at Ollivanders and enjoy dining at the Three Broomsticks.

Attractions
The table below shows the different attractions across all the parks around the world.


================================================================================

# The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Universal Orlando Resort)

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter is a themed area spanning three theme parks—Universal Islands of Adventure, Universal Studios Florida and Universal Epic Universe at the Universal Orlando Resort in Orlando, Florida. The area is themed to the Harry Potter media franchise, adapting elements from the film series and novels by J. K. Rowling, in partnership with Warner Bros. under an exclusive license agreement. The Wizarding World of Harry Potter was well received and significantly boosted attendance at the resort.
The first Harry Potter themed area was officially announced for Islands of Adventure on May 31, 2007, and after a two-and-a-half-year construction period, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter – Hogsmeade opened to the public on June 18, 2010. The area's flagship rides is Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, a dark ride that takes riders on a journey in and around Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The second area to open was The Wizarding World of Harry Potter – Diagon Alley at the adjacent Universal Studios Florida theme park. The expanded area opened on July 8, 2014, themed to the London-based area from the book and film series. Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts, an indoor steel coaster that utilizes motion-based 3D effects, highlights the expansion along with the Hogwarts Express train ride, which transports guests between the two lands. A third themed area, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter – Ministry of Magic themed to the Fantastic Beasts film series opened in 2025 at Universal Epic Universe.

History

Previous attempts
Rumors of a Harry Potter–themed area at a Universal Studios park or a Disney park started to circulate in 2003. However, the rights to the Harry Potter franchise had been acquired by Warner Bros., who denied all the rumors. In 2001, Time Warner used this license to construct and operate the Harry Potter Movie Magic Experience at Warner Bros. Movie World on the Gold Coast, Australia; it was a small indoor walkthrough featuring many re-creations of locations in the first two movies. After two years of operation, it was removed.
The Walt Disney Company and Universal entered bidding negotiations with Warner Bros. and Rowling for the theme park rights to Harry Potter in the United States. In 2004, Rowling signed a letter-of-intent with Disney, with the company intending to develop a Harry Potter section in a corner of Fantasyland, within the Magic Kingdom park at Walt Disney World. Ultimately, Disney pulled out of negotiations, citing that Rowling's creative influence and the terms established by Warner Bros. were too stringent.

Rumors and official announcement
In January 2007, About.com reported a rumor from a "highly credible source" that the Lost Continent area within Islands of Adventure park was to be re-themed "to the stories and characters of one of the most popular children's franchises". Other sources followed up in the next few days with unofficial confirmation the new area would involve Harry Potter, and was being developed under the name "Project Strong Arm" in reference to the KUKA robotic arm technology it would utilise. Nikki Finke reported her own confirmation of the Potter park plans in April, followed shortly by a story in The Scotsman; both reports were widely relayed by other media sources. On May 31, 2007, Universal (in partnership with Warner Bros.) officially announced the 20-acre (8.1 ha) addition recreating Hogwarts, the Forbidden Forest and Hogsmeade, with a planned opening in 2009.

2010: Islands of Adventure

Construction of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter began seven months after the official announcement, in January 2008. By July, the Flying Unicorn and Enchanted Oak Tavern were closed. The Flying Unicorn then began an almost two-year refurbishment, which transformed it into the Flight of the Hippogriff. The Enchanted Oak Tavern was later demolished. A bridge was built to connect The Lost Continent with Jurassic Park, allowing guests to avoid the construction zone that was to become the Wizarding World. By September 2008, the Dueling Dragons entrance was moved to Jurassic Park to make room for the construction of Hogsmeade. One month later, the old entrance was demolished. By September 2009, the top shell of Hogwarts Castle was completed. On September 15, an announcement was made detailing what would be included in the Wizarding World. In early 2010, Universal increased its marketing efforts in the area, which included newspaper advertisements, billboards, and television commercials. The Dueling Dragons were closed for some maintenance before being transformed into the Dragon Challenge. Construction was completed by June 1, 2010, when the area began soft openings. The land opened with three rides: the Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, a dark ride inside Hogwarts Castle, and the rethemed Flight of the Hippogriff and Dueling Dragons.
A soft opening weekend was held for the media and reserved guests, starting on May 28, 2010. The park held two opening ceremonies, which took place on June 16 and June 18, 2010. The Wizarding World of Harry Potter's grand opening ceremony took place on June 16 with book series author J. K. Rowling and film series actors Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Michael Gambon, Robbie Coltrane, Tom Felton, Matthew Lewis, James and Oliver Phelps, and Bonnie Wright, as well as Universal Orlando Resort officials and representatives from the media. The ceremony, which was produced by Universal Orlando Events Production in conjunction with Thinkwell Group, concluded with a fireworks display and a performance by the Orlando Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by original series' composer John Williams. On June 18, the second ceremony took place, which officially opened the Wizarding World of Harry Potter to the public. NBC's Today Show and The Weather Channel broadcast segments live from the park.

2014: Universal Studios Florida
The opening of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter led to a 36% increase in attendance at Islands of Adventure in 2010. According to Jason Garcia of the Orlando Sentinel, this had resort executives pondering "when to expand Wizarding World and how to keep business balanced between Islands and Universal Studios Florida". In April 2011, Brady MacDonald of the Los Angeles Times mentioned that rapid attendance growth led to speculation that the Wizarding World of Harry Potter would see a significant expansion, which would include Diagon Alley and a Gringotts-themed dark ride possibly replacing the Lost Continent themed area in Islands of Adventure.

On December 6, 2011, Universal Parks & Resorts confirmed expansion plans but did not reveal specific details. The announcement was made just four days after Universal revealed plans to permanently close the Jaws attraction. Following its closure the following month, the Los Angeles Times stated that the site of the former Jaws ride in Universal Studios Florida would be used for the Wizarding World of Harry Potter expansion, despite what previous speculation suggested. These rides would be complemented by a replica of the Hogwarts Express to move guests between the two parks. Demolition of the Jaws ride and the Amity area began almost immediately after their closure. After the site was leveled, work began on land reclamation in the area's former lagoon, as well as construction of a series of buildings including a large show building.
Further details about the expansion of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter were announced on May 8, 2013. Officials confirmed that the expansion would be primarily located in the adjacent Universal Studios Florida theme park and would feature areas themed after Diagon Alley and London. The rumored connection between the two parks via the Hogwarts Express was also confirmed. Officials stated that the expansion is expected to open in 2014.
On January 23, 2014, officials announced the name of the flagship roller coaster would be Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts. They also indicated that a two-park pass would be necessary to ride the Hogwarts Express, which was set to connect Universal Studios Florida with the existing Harry Potter area at Islands of Adventure.
The official opening date of Diagon Alley was announced at an exclusive and private press conference on June 17, 2014, for July 8, 2014. On June 18, 2014, the Diagon Alley red carpet premiere took place with Domhnall Gleeson, Bonnie Wright, Evanna Lynch, Matthew Lewis, James and Oliver Phelps, Tom Felton, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis and Helena Bonham Carter attending. New photos of Diagon Alley were later released the same night and the official opening date was  announced publicly by Universal Orlando's president, Bill Davis. King's Cross station opened on July 1, 2014, as well as the Hogwarts Express Hogsmeade Station at Universal Islands of Adventure and soft openings of Diagon Alley began on July 3, 2014. Diagon Alley officially opened on July 8, 2014.

2025: Universal Epic Universe
A third themed area titled The Wizarding World of Harry Potter – Ministry of Magic opened in 2025 at the Universal Epic Universe theme park. The area blends the 1920s wizarding Paris from the Fantastic Beasts film series with the British Ministry of Magic. The 1920s wizarding Paris area includes the theatrical show Le Cirque Arcanus and also features a location where guests can time travel by Métro-Floo to the 1990s British Ministry of Magic area featuring the ride Harry Potter and the Battle at the Ministry, which revolves around the trial of Dolores Umbridge.

Themed Areas and Attractions

Hogsmeade at Islands of Adventure
 Dragon Challenge was an inverted roller coaster featuring two distinct tracks that overlapped and intertwined with each other. The coaster predated the Wizarding World of Harry Potter, having operated under the name Dueling Dragons since the park's 1999 opening. The tracks remained the same, but were renamed in homage to the first task of the Triwizard Tournament where Harry and the other contestants are each to duel with a dragon, depicted in chapter 20 of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. The two sides of the coaster were renamed "Hungarian Horntail" and "Chinese Fireball", after two of the dragon breeds which appear in the book. It was the only chasing inverted roller coaster in the world. The queue for this ride featured many Harry Potter relics, including the Goblet of Fire and the Triwizard Cup. In addition, the hike to the ride featured Ron Weasley's flying Ford Anglia from in the second film, as well as Hagrid's hut. Dragon Challenge closed on September 4, 2017 to make way for Hagrid's Magical Creatures Motorbike Adventure, which opened on June 13, 2019.

Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey is a dark ride inside the replica of Hogwarts Castle, simulating a tour of the castle and its surrounding grounds. Visitors initially walk through the castle, interacting with various characters and props from the Potter series, including a speech from Dumbledore, and directions from Harry, Hermione and Ron, before boarding a "magical bench" (controlled with a KUKA robotic arm system). Throughout the ride, guests are taken around the outside of the castle, using a combination of simulated flight as well as encountering realistic animatronic versions of the Whomping Willow, a horde of dementors, giant spiders, the Hungarian Horntail Dragon, and a Quidditch match.
Flight of the Hippogriff is a steel roller coaster designed for families, located adjacent to Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey. The ride opened in 2000 as the Flying Unicorn. Similar to the Dragon Challenge, this ride was re-themed prior to the opening of the Wizarding World. The roller coaster's back-story is that Hogwarts's Care of Magical Creatures professor, Hagrid, is teaching young wizards to fly on a hippogriff (as Harry does in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban) by using a wicker replica of the creature. A recreation of Hagrid's Hut is passed on the way for a lesson from Hagrid himself on how to properly approach a hippogriff.

A recreation of the Hogwarts Express lies at the entry to Hogsmeade. The recreation features "billowing steam and an iconic whistle" and is accompanied by the conductor of the train. In the Harry Potter series, the Hogwarts Express is the train used to transport students from King's Cross Station in London to Hogwarts. The "Owl Post" is a working post office (where postcards and letters will be delivered with an authentic Hogsmeade postmark) that also sells stationery, writing implements, stamps, and owl-related gifts.
"The Three Broomsticks", based on the inn and pub from the Harry Potter series, offers a variety of food and beverage items from the Harry Potter series, including Butterbeer, pumpkin juice, strawberry-peanut butter ice cream (as seen in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban), and chocolate Cauldron Cakes, in addition to a menu composed of traditional British fare (Shepherd's pie, fish and chips, etc.). The pub features many hidden references to the books and films, namely house elves and ghosts that roam the rafters. Butterbeer, which can be purchased with a souvenir mug, is offered as a non-alcoholic beverage and comes in both regular and frozen forms, found at the beginning of Hogsmeade fresh off the tap from the Butterbeer cart. Similarly, The Hog's Head is based on the pub from the Harry Potter series owned by Aberforth Dumbledore. Honeydukes is a sweet shop, based on the sweet shop of the same name in the Harry Potter series. The shop sells many confectionery items from the books and films, including Chocolate Frogs, Acid Pops, Exploding Bonbons, Cauldron Cakes, treacle fudge, Fizzing Whizzbees, Black Pepper Imps, and Bertie Bott's Every Flavour Beans.
Various Harry Potter merchandise items can be purchased from two different gift shops in Hogsmeade. Dervish and Banges is a store selling magical items, as well as Quidditch supplies, Hogwarts clothing, and other merchandise. The store is based on Dervish and Banges in the Harry Potter series. The second shop is Filch's Emporium of Confiscated Goods, a general gift shop (named for Hogwarts caretaker Argus Filch) offering Hogwarts souvenirs (such as clothing and stationery), replicas of props from the Harry Potter films, and other toys and souvenirs. The shop is located at the exit to Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, and is where guests can obtain photos of their ride experience.

Diagon Alley at Universal Studios Florida

Diagon Alley's flagship ride is Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts, a 3-D motion-based steel roller coaster dark ride based around Gringotts Bank, the wizarding bank in Diagon Alley. Riders enter the bank into the queue area where Blordak greets visitors and instructs them to continue past him to travel deep into the vaults of the bank to open an account. Unlike Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, this ride is hosted by Bill Weasley, played by Domhnall Gleeson, reprising his role from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2.

A completely functioning full-scale replica of the Hogwarts Express was created for the Diagon Alley expansion, connecting King's Cross Station at Universal Studios Florida to the Hogsmeade station at Islands of Adventure, manufactured by Doppelmayr Garaventa Group in the form of a funicular railway people mover. The Hogwarts Express King's Cross Station features a wall between Platforms 9 and 10, where guests can "walk through" to get to Platform 9+3⁄4, like in the first film.
Live events at Diagon Alley include the Knight Bus interactive experience at the London waterfront; "The Fountain of Fair Fortune" and "The Tale of The Three Brothers," which are puppet shows enacting stories from The Tales of Beedle the Bard; and live performances from musical group Celestina Warbeck and the Banshees (mentioned briefly by Molly Weasley in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets).
Gringotts Money Exchange is able to exchange American currency for Wizarding bank notes. Diagon Alley features The Leaky Cauldron restaurant, The Hopping Pot, and Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlour, which specializes in Butterbeer-flavored ice cream. The Fountain of Fair Fortune is also a bar. Ollivander's Wand Shop sells interactive wands that activate features all around Diagon Alley, Quality Quidditch Supplies, Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes joke shop, Magical Menagerie, Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions, Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment. Borgin and Burkes is the only shop located in Knockturn Alley.

Ministry of Magic at Epic Universe
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter - Ministry of Magic takes place in 1920s 'Place Cachée' (French for 'Hidden Place'), the French version of Diagon Alley from the Fantastic Beasts films. The land has one ride and a theatrical stage show. The flagship ride, Harry Potter and the Battle at the Ministry, brings riders to the 1990s British Ministry of Magic via the Floo network and a time turner, where they become involved in the trial of Dolores Umbridge. The ride vehicle and mechanisms are similar to The Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man and Transformers: The Ride – 3D at the existing Universal Orlando parks, sitting atop a scissor lift, in addition to other traditional dark ride elements.
The stage show, Le Cirque Arcanus, involves a ringmaster stealing Newt Scamander's suitcase full of magical creatures in order to bring his circus back to its former glory. The show involves live performers, puppetry, special effects, and more.

Interactive Wands

In the book series, Ollivanders wand shop is located in Diagon Alley, not Hogsmeade; however, installations of the shop are present in both areas of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter. The Hogsmeade area recreated the shop as "Ollivanders", portraying it as a branch of the original where Harry purchases his wand in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (known in the United States as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone). Unlike other shops at the Wizarding World of Harry Potter, visitors are admitted in groups of 20 to experience the premise of the Potter series, that "the wand chooses the wizard". Similar to the first film, the wand keeper and a selected guest test a variety of wands until the right one is found. Effects include flowers drying out or a thunderstorm erupting inside the shop. Shoppers can then purchase souvenir wands.

Reception
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter has been well received by Harry Potter fans. Matt Blum of Wired stated "every detail is finely crafted to enhance the experience". An Orlando Sentinel article stated "Muggles will love their Harry Potter adventure" but identifies the need for the park to offer Universal Express Passes due to large crowds. It also stated Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey is a truly one-of-a-kind experience that cannot easily be described.
Leigh Caldwell from Traveling Mamas noted that although the Wizarding World of Harry Potter is ideal for the whole family, it is not designed for children under three years old. She went on to consolidate others' comments about the area: "there is no doubt that fans of the Harry Potter books and movies are going to enjoy the heck out of a visit to the Wizarding World".
Boris Johnson, then Mayor of London, expressed his "jealous irritation" at the fact that the park was chosen to be in Orlando, rather than in London, stating that it was "utterly mad" to leave it to the Americans "to make money from a great British invention" along with his hopes that a similar theme park would come to London. Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter, a studio tour exhibiting the original costumes, props and sets used in all eight films, opened in Leavesden, Hertfordshire, in 2012.


================================================================================

# The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Universal Studios Beijing)

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Chinese: 哈利·波特的魔法世界) is a themed area at the Universal Studios Beijing theme park in Beijing, China. It is the fourth installation of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter themed lands, following those at Universal Orlando, Universal Studios Japan, and Universal Studios Hollywood.
The land officially opened to the public on September 20, 2021, coinciding with the grand opening of Universal Studios Beijing. It is themed to the village of Hogsmeade and features the iconic Hogwarts Castle.

History
The development of Universal Studios Beijing was announced in 2014, including The Wizarding World of Harry Potter area confirmed to be one of the signature themed lands. Construction for the resort began in 2016 and was completed in April 2021, with the park and the themed land opening on September 20, 2021.
The land is based on the Harry Potter films and is a concept previously implemented in other Universal parks worldwide.

Layout and Experience
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Beijing is anchored by recreations of Hogwarts Castle and Hogsmeade Village. The land's primary attractions include two major rides: Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey, an indoor motion-simulator dark ride housed within the castle, and Flight of the Hippogriff, a family-oriented outdoor roller coaster.
Beyond the rides, the area offers the interactive Ollivanders Experience and several key retail and dining venues.

Notable dining establishments, such as The Three Broomsticks restaurant and the adjacent Hog's Head pub, offer food and beverage items from the Harry Potter series, including the signature Butterbeer. Retail shops within the area include Hogsmeade Station, Zonko's Joke Shop, Gladrags Wizardwear, Owl Post & Owlery, Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment, Ollivanders Wand Shop in Hogsmeade, Honeydukes sweet shop, Filch's Emporium of Confiscated Goods,  and Dervish and Banges. Live street entertainment, such as the Frog Choir performance and the Triwizard Spirit Rally, and the evening Nighttime Lights at Hogwarts Castle projection show, can also be found.


================================================================================

# The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Universal Studios Hollywood)

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter is a themed area at Universal Studios Hollywood theme park near Los Angeles. The area is themed to the Harry Potter media franchise, adapting elements from the film series and novels by J.K. Rowling. The attraction—the second Harry Potter-themed area to exist at a Universal resort—was designed by Universal Creative from an exclusive license with Warner Bros..
After the successful debut of a similarly themed area at Universal Orlando Resort, Universal Destinations & Experiences announced the construction of a second Wizarding World of Harry Potter on December 6, 2011. The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Studios Hollywood officially began operation on April 7, 2016.

Background

Previous Universal Harry Potter attractions
A Harry Potter themed attraction at a Universal Studios park or a Disney park was rumored in 2003. However, the rights to the Harry Potter franchise had been acquired by Warner Bros., which denied all rumors. In January 2007, About.com reported a rumor from a "highly credible source" that the Universal Islands of Adventure park's Lost Continent area at Universal Orlando Resort was going to be re-themed "to the stories and characters of one of the most popular children's franchises". Other sources followed up in the next few days with unofficial confirmation that the new area would involve Harry Potter. On May 31, 2007, Universal, in partnership with Warner Bros., officially announced that the Wizarding World of Harry Potter would be added to Islands of Adventure. After a 2+1⁄2-year construction period, the area officially opened to the public on June 18, 2010. This resulted in attendance at the park jumping approximately 50% in its first year of operation.
On July 8, 2014, Universal opened an expansion to the Wizarding World at Universal Studios Florida, Diagon Alley, which was placed in the former Amity Island area of the park. This expansion also included the new ride experience: The Hogwarts Express, in which a train travels between the two Universal Florida Parks, from the Hogsmeade area to Kings Cross Station (right outside of the entrance to Diagon Alley). A week later, on July 15, 2014, Universal opened the Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Studios Japan.

Rumors and official announcement
On December 1, 2011, the Wall Street Journal reported a rumor from "people familiar with the matter" that Universal Studios Hollywood was going to add its version of Islands of Adventure's Wizarding World of Harry Potter. The report also detailed the possibility that Universal Parks & Resorts would open additional Harry Potter-themed areas at Universal Studios Singapore and Universal Studios Japan as well as a location in Spain. This report was widely relayed by other media sources. On December 6, 2011, Universal Studios Hollywood announced the Wizarding World of Harry Potter. Universal Parks & Resorts executives Tom Williams and Ron Meyer were accompanied by Warner Bros. executives, the Governor of California Jerry Brown as well as James and Oliver Phelps who played the Weasley twins in the films. The announcement came with very few details of what would be built, however, it did confirm that the Gibson Amphitheatre would be demolished and a re-creation of Hogwarts and Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey would be constructed. The last show at the Gibson Amphitheatre was held on September 6, 2013, prior to its closure and subsequent demolition.
On April 23, 2013, NBCUniversal made the final step by receiving a unanimous vote in approval of the 25-year expansion by the county Board of Supervisors. This $1.6 billion expansion is expected to greatly boost tourism and the local entertainment industry. It will also create 30,000 jobs during the time of construction.
On December 8, 2015, it was announced that the park will open on April 7, 2016. The announcement featured actress Evanna Lynch, who played Luna Lovegood in the Harry Potter films. However, the soft opening was on March 31, 2016.

Attractions
Similar to the Wizarding World in Japan, this one never featured the Dragon Challenge coaster like Islands of Adventure once had, but does include Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey and Flight of the Hippogriff, along with Ollivander's Wand Shop Show, and the Frog Choir and Triwizard Spirit Rally.
Wands purchased from Ollivander's Wand Shop can be used to perform "magic" at various indicated locations, using sensors that track the movements of the wands. While performing different "spells" from the Harry Potter universe, fans can produce different reactions, such as unlocking a cabinet, opening a box of candy (Chocolate Frogs), and forcing a ruler to lower itself.
The table below show the different attractions across the area.

Dining and shopping
The Three Broomsticks and Hog's Head Pub
Ollivander's Wand Shop
Owl Post
Wiseacre's Wizarding Equipment
Gladrags Wizardwear
Dervish and Banges
Filch's Emporium of Confiscated Goods
Honeydukes
Zonko's


================================================================================

# The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Universal Studios Japan)

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (ウィザーディング・ワールド・オブ・ハリー・ポッター, Wizādingu Wārudo obu Harī Pottā) is a themed area based on the Harry Potter series built at Universal Studios Japan theme park in Osaka, Japan. It is a collaboration of Universal Destinations & Experiences and Warner Bros. Entertainment. It opened to the public on July 15, 2014.
It contains the Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey ride and the Flight of the Hippogriff roller coaster that debuted at the Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Orlando Resort in 2010. The village of Hogsmeade is also recreated. Two features in the Japanese park not found in Orlando are Hogwarts's Black Lake and live owls.

Attractions
The table below shows the different attractions across the area.


================================================================================

# Voldemort

Lord Voldemort ( VOHL-də-mor,  -⁠mort in the films) is a fictional character and the main antagonist in the Harry Potter series of novels by J. K. Rowling. He first appears in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (1997) and returns either in person or in flashbacks in each novel in the series except the third, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, in which he is only mentioned.
Lord Voldemort—where "I am Lord Voldemort" is an anagrammatic sobriquet for his birth name Tom Marvolo Riddle—is the archenemy of Harry Potter, who according to a prophecy has "the power to vanquish the Dark Lord". After killing Harry's parents, Lily and James Potter, he attempts to murder the boy, but instead leaves him with a scar on his forehead in the shape of a lightning bolt. Nearly every witch or wizard dares not utter his name and refers to him instead with such monikers as "You-Know-Who", "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named", or The Dark Lord. Voldemort's obsession with blood purity signifies his aim to rid the wizarding world of Muggle (non-magical) heritage and to conquer both worlds, Muggle and wizarding, to achieve pure-blood dominance. Through his mother's family, he is the last descendant of the wizard Salazar Slytherin, one of the four founders of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He is the leader of the Death Eaters, a group of wizards and witches dedicated to ridding the Wizarding World of Muggles and establishing Voldemort as its supreme ruler.

Character development
In a 1999 interview, Rowling claimed Voldemort was invented as a nemesis for Harry Potter, and she intentionally did not flesh out Voldemort's backstory at first. "The basic idea [was that Harry] didn't know he was a wizard ... And so then I kind of worked backwards from that position to find out how that could be, that he wouldn't know what he was. ... When he was one year old, the most evil wizard for hundreds and hundreds of years attempted to kill him. He killed Harry's parents, and then he tried to kill Harry—he tried to curse him. ... Harry has to find out, before we find out. And—so—but for some mysterious reason the curse didn't work on Harry. So he's left with this lightning bolt-shaped scar on his forehead and the curse rebounded upon the evil wizard, who has been in hiding ever since."
In the second book, Rowling establishes that Voldemort hates non-pure-blood wizards, despite being a half-blood himself. In a 2000 interview with the BBC, Rowling described Voldemort as a self-hating bully: "Well I think it is often the case that the biggest bullies take what they know to be their own defects, as they see it, and they put them right on someone else and then they try and destroy the other and that's what Voldemort does." In the same year, Rowling became more precise about Voldemort. She began to link him to real-life tyrants, describing him as "a raging psychopath, devoid of the normal human responses to other people's suffering". In 2004, though, Rowling said that she did not base Voldemort on any real person. In 2006, Rowling told an interviewer that Voldemort at his core has a human fear: the fear of death. She said: "Voldemort's fear is death, ignominious death. I mean, he regards death itself as ignominious. He thinks that it's a shameful human weakness, as you know. His worst fear is death."
Throughout the series, Rowling establishes that Voldemort is so feared in the wizarding world that it is considered dangerous even to speak his name. Most characters in the novels refer to him as "You-Know-Who" or "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named" rather than say his name aloud. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, a "taboo" spell is placed upon the name, such that Voldemort or his followers may trace anyone who utters it. By this means, his followers eventually find and capture Harry and his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. In the second book, Rowling reveals that I am Lord Voldemort is an anagram of the character's birth name, Tom Marvolo Riddle (in translated editions of the book, his middle name or entire birth name is/are often changed in order to allow anagrams to be formed in other languages).
According to the author, Voldemort's name is an invented word. The name Voldemort is derived from the French vol de mort which means "flight of death" or "theft of death".

Appearances

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone

Voldemort makes his debut in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. In this story, Rowling introduces him as the Dark Lord who tried to kill Harry Potter because the boy was prophesied to destroy him. Voldemort murdered Harry's parents, James and Lily, but as a result of his mother's love and willingness to sacrifice herself for him, baby Harry survived when Voldemort tried to murder him with a Killing Curse. Voldemort was disembodied, and Harry was left with a mysterious, lightning bolt-shaped scar on his forehead as a result.
In the book, Voldemort unsuccessfully tries to regain his dissolved body by stealing the titular Philosopher's Stone. To achieve his objective, Voldemort uses Professor Quirrell's aid by latching onto the back of the latter's head. However, at the climax of the book, Harry manages to prevent Voldemort from stealing the stone.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
In the second installment, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Rowling introduces Voldemort's true identity, former Hogwarts pupil and Slytherin prefect Tom Marvolo Riddle, who appears as a manifestation of the Dark Lord's teenage self that resides inside a magical diary found by Ginny Weasley. In this book, Ginny is written as a shy girl with a crush on Harry. Feeling anxious and lonely, she begins to write into the diary and shares her deepest fears with the sympathetic Tom. However, at the climax of the story, when the manifestation of Riddle rearranges the letters in his name to write "I am Lord Voldemort", it is revealed that Tom and the Dark Lord are just one person and that he is a descendant of one of the school's founders, Salazar Slytherin. Riddle states he has grown strong on Ginny's fears and eventually possesses her, using her as a pawn to unlock the Chamber of Secrets, whence a basilisk is set free and petrifies several Hogwarts students. Harry defeats the manifestation of Riddle from the diary and the basilisk. In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Albus Dumbledore reveals to Harry that the diary was one of Voldemort's Horcruxes.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Voldemort does not appear in the third book, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, either in person or as a magical manifestation. He is, however, heard when Harry passes out from the harsh effects of a Dementor. Towards the end of the story, Sybill Trelawney, the Divination professor, makes a rare genuine prophecy: "The Dark Lord lies alone and friendless, abandoned by his followers. His servant has been chained these twelve years. Tonight, before midnight, the servant will break free and set out to rejoin his master. The Dark Lord will rise again with his servant's aid, greater and more terrible than ever before." The servant is eventually revealed to be Peter Pettigrew, who, for the 12 years since Voldemort's fall, has been disguised as Ron's pet rat, Scabbers.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire

In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2000), Voldemort reappears at the start and the climax of the book. Rowling lets many seemingly unrelated plot elements fall into order. It is revealed that Voldemort's minion Barty Crouch Jr, disguised as Hogwarts professor Mad-Eye Moody, has manipulated the events of the Triwizard Tournament in Harry's favour. Voldemort's goal is to teleport Harry under Dumbledore's watch as a reluctant participant to the Little Hangleton graveyard, where the Riddle family is buried. Harry is captured and, after Pettigrew uses Harry's blood to fulfil a gruesome magical rite, Voldemort regains his body and is restored to his full power. For the first time in the series, Rowling describes his appearance: "tall and skeletally thin", with a face "whiter than a skull, with wide, livid scarlet eyes and a nose that was as flat as a snake's with slits for nostrils". Rowling writes that his "hands were like large, pale spiders; his long white fingers caressed his own chest, his arms, his face; the red eyes, whose pupils were slits, like a cat's, gleamed still more brightly through the darkness". It is revealed that with Pettigrew's help, Voldemort had created a small, rudimentary body, corporeal enough to travel and perform magic, and formulated a plan to restore his own body by capturing Harry. A portion of the plan had been overheard by Frank Bryce, a gardener, whom Voldemort then killed. Voldemort then completes his plan and returns to life in his full body as a result of the rite with Harry's blood. He then summons his Death Eaters to the graveyard to witness the death of Harry as he challenges Harry to a duel. However, when Voldemort duels Harry, their wands become magically locked together due to the twin phoenix feather cores of the wands. Because of a phenomenon later revealed as Priori Incantatem, ghost-like manifestations of Voldemort's most recent victims (including Harry's parents) then appear and distract Voldemort, allowing Harry just enough time to escape via Portkey with the body of fellow-student, Cedric Diggory, who was murdered by Pettigrew on Voldemort's orders.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Voldemort returns near the end of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2003). He engineers a plot to free Bellatrix Lestrange and other Death Eaters from Azkaban and then embarks on a scheme to retrieve the full record of a prophecy stored in the Department of Mysteries regarding Harry and himself. He sends a group of Death Eaters to retrieve the prophecy, where the Order of the Phoenix meets them. All but Bellatrix are captured, and Voldemort engages in a ferocious duel with Dumbledore. When Dumbledore gets the upper hand, Voldemort attempts to possess Harry but finds that he cannot; Harry is too full of that which Voldemort finds incomprehensible, and which he detests as weakness: love. Sensing that Dumbledore could win, Voldemort disapparates, but not before the Minister for Magic sees him in person, making his return to life public knowledge in the next book.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Though Voldemort never physically appears in the sixth book, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2005), his rise to power continues to unfold in the background. He murders Amelia Bones of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and begins to target members of the Order of the Phoenix. In a series of flashbacks, it is revealed that Voldemort was the son of the witch Merope Gaunt and a Muggle named Tom Riddle. Riddle abandoned Merope before their child's birth, soon after which Merope died. After living in an orphanage, young Riddle met Dumbledore, who told him he was a wizard and arranged for him to attend Hogwarts. Riddle was outwardly a model student, but inwardly took sadistic pleasure in using his powers to harm and control people. He eventually murdered his father and grandparents as revenge for abandoning him. The book also discusses Riddle's hatred of Muggles, his obsession with Horcruxes, and his desire to split his soul to achieve immortality. Rowling stated that Voldemort's conception under the influence of a love potion symbolises the coercive circumstances under which he was brought into the world.
In the main plot of the book, Voldemort's next step is to engineer an assault on Hogwarts, and to kill Dumbledore. This is accomplished by Draco Malfoy, who arranges transportation of Death Eaters into Hogwarts by a pair of Vanishing Cabinets, which bypass the extensive protective enchantments placed around the school. The cabinets allow Voldemort's Death Eaters to enter Hogwarts, where battle commences and Dumbledore is cornered. Hogwarts professor (and re-doubled agent) Severus Snape uses the Killing Curse against Dumbledore when Draco could not force himself to do so.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (2007), Voldemort furthers his quest for ultimate power. He disposes of the Minister for Magic and replaces him with Pius Thicknesse, who is under the Imperius Curse. Establishing a totalitarian police state, he has Muggle-borns persecuted and arrested for "stealing magic" from the "pure blood" wizards. After failing to kill Harry with Draco's father Lucius Malfoy's borrowed wand (to avoid the effect of Priori Incantatem), he goes on a murderous search for the Elder Wand, the most powerful wand ever created, seeing it as the weapon he needs to overcome Harry's wand and make him truly invincible. His journey takes him to Nurmengard, the prison where Gellert Grindelwald is kept, and he kills Grindelwald as well. He finally locates the Elder Wand and steals it from Dumbledore's tomb.
Later, Voldemort finds out that Harry and his friends are hunting and destroying his Horcruxes when informed of their heist on the Lestranges' vault at Gringotts in search for Hufflepuff's Cup. After offering the occupants of Hogwarts mercy if they give up Harry, he assembles a large army and launches an invasion of the castle, where Harry is searching for Ravenclaw's Diadem. Voldemort orders his pet snake Nagini to execute Snape, believing it would make him the true master of the Elder Wand, since Snape killed Dumbledore. He then calls an hour's armistice, in exchange for Harry. When Harry willingly walks into Voldemort's camp in the Forbidden Forest, Voldemort strikes him down with the Elder Wand. However, the use of Harry's blood to resurrect Voldemort's body proves to be a major setback: while Harry's blood runs in Voldemort's veins, Harry cannot be killed as his mother's protection lives on now in Voldemort too. Instead, Voldemort unknowingly destroys the part of his own soul that resides in Harry's body.
Voldemort forces Rubeus Hagrid to carry Harry's apparently lifeless body back to the castle as a trophy, sparking another battle during which Nagini, his last Horcrux, is destroyed by Neville Longbottom. The battle then moves into the Great Hall, where Voldemort fights Minerva McGonagall, Kingsley Shacklebolt, and Horace Slughorn simultaneously. Harry then reveals himself and explains to Voldemort that Draco became the true master of the Elder Wand when he disarmed Dumbledore; Harry, in turn, won the wand's allegiance when he took Draco's wand.
Refusing to believe this, Voldemort casts the Killing Curse with the Elder Wand while Harry uses a Disarming Charm with Draco's, but the Elder Wand refuses to kill its master and the spell rebounds on Voldemort who, with all of his Horcruxes destroyed, finally dies.
Rowling stated that after his death, Voldemort is forced to exist in the stunted infant-like form that Harry sees in the King's Cross-like limbo after his confrontation with Voldemort in the Forbidden Forest. Rowling also mentioned that, despite his extreme fear of death, he cannot become a ghost.

Portrayal in films

Voldemort appears in every Harry Potter film, with the exception of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. Several actors have portrayed him in his varying incarnations and ages.
In Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Voldemort's manifestation is as a face on the back of Quirrell's head, an effect achieved by computer-generated imagery. Ian Hart, the actor who played Quirrell in the same film, provided the voice and the facial source for this character. Voldemort also appears in a scene in the Forbidden Forest where he is seen drinking the blood of a unicorn. As Voldemort's face was altered enough by CG work, and Hart's voice was affected enough, there was no confusion by Hart's playing of the two roles. In that film, he was also shown in a flashback sequence when he arrived at the home of James and Lily Potter to kill them. In this scene Voldemort is played by Richard Bremmer, though his face is never seen. His next appearance would be in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets as the 16-year-old Tom Marvolo Riddle (portrayed by Christian Coulson).

In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Voldemort is initially only heard, possessing the scratchy, weak voice heard in the first film. By the film's climax, however, he appears in his physical form for the first time, played by Ralph Fiennes. As in the book, Voldemort is shown clad in dark black robes, being tall and emaciated, with no hair and yellowish teeth; his wand has a white tone, and the handle appears to be made of bone; his fingernails are long and pale blue while his toenails appear to be infected. Unlike in the book, his pupils are not cat-like, and his eyes are blue, because producer David Heyman felt that his evil would not be able to be seen and would not fill the audience with fear (his eyes do briefly take on a snake-like appearance when he opens them after turning human, but quickly turn normal). As in the book, the film version of Voldemort has snake-like slit nostrils with the flesh of his nose significantly pressed back. Ralph Fiennes's nose was not covered in makeup on the set but was digitally removed in post-production. In this first appearance, Voldemort also has a forked tongue, but this element was removed for the subsequent films.
Fiennes stated that he had two weeks to shoot the climactic showdown scene where he is gloating over a terrified Harry, played by Daniel Radcliffe. Fiennes said with a chuckle: "I have no doubt children will be afraid of me now if they weren't before." In preparation, he read the novel Goblet of Fire, but jokingly conceded: "I was only interested in my scene, and I had to go through thousands and thousands of other scenes which I did, dutifully, until I got to my scene and I read it many, many, many, many, many times and that was my research." Fiennes reprised his role as Voldemort in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 and Part 2.
Fiennes's nephew, Hero Fiennes Tiffin, portrayed Tom Riddle as a child in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. By the time filming arrived Christian Coulson was 29, and not considered suitable to return as the adolescent Riddle. Thomas James Longley was originally scheduled to take over the role, but last minute renegotiations saw Frank Dillane cast instead.

Stage adaptation
In the 2016 stage play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, it is revealed that Bellatrix gave birth to Voldemort's daughter Delphi before the Battle of Hogwarts. Twenty-two years later, Delphi poses as Cedric's cousin and manipulates Harry and Ginny's second son Albus Severus Potter and his friend, Draco and Astoria Greengrass's son Scorpius Malfoy, into stealing a prototype Time Turner with which she hopes to resurrect her father. Using the Time Turner, Scorpius accidentally creates an alternative timeline where Voldemort killed Harry at the battle and now rules the wizarding world. In an attempt to achieve this future, Delphi travels to Godric's Hollow on the night Voldemort killed Harry's parents, hoping to avert the prophecy that led to her father's downfall. After receiving a message from his son, Harry, together with Ron, Hermione and Draco (who by now has become friends with Harry after they join forces to save their respective sons) transfigures himself into Voldemort so that he can distract Delphi, allowing them to overpower her. The real Voldemort kills Harry's parents as prophesied, and Delphi is sent to Azkaban.

Characterisation

Outward appearance
After he regains his body in the fourth book, Rowling describes Voldemort as having pale skin, a chalk-white, skull-like face, snake-like slits for nostrils, red eyes and cat-like slits for pupils, a skeletally thin body and long, thin hands with unnaturally long fingers. As mentioned in the first chapter of the seventh book, he also has no hair or lips. Earlier in life, as seen through flashbacks contained in the second and sixth books, Tom Marvolo Riddle was handsome and tall with pale skin, jet black hair, and dark brown eyes. He could charm many people with his looks. The transformation into his monstrous state is believed to have been the result of creating his Horcruxes and becoming less human as he continued to divide his soul. In the films, Voldemort's eyes are blue with round pupils, as the decision was made not to have his portrayer, Ralph Fiennes, wear colored contact lenses.

Personality
Rowling described Voldemort as "the most evil wizard for hundreds and hundreds of years". She elaborated that he is a "raging psychopath, devoid of the normal human responses to other people's suffering", and whose only ambition in life is to become all-powerful and immortal. He is also a sadist who hurts and murders people—especially Muggles—for his own amusement. He has no conscience, feels no remorse or empathy, and does not recognise the worth and humanity of anybody except himself.
He feels no need for human companionship or friendship, and cannot comprehend love or affection for another. He believes he is superior to everyone around him, to the point that he frequently refers to himself in the third person as "Lord Voldemort". Rowling also stated that Voldemort is "incredibly power hungry. Racist, really", and that if Voldemort were to look into the Mirror of Erised, in which one sees one's greatest desire, he would see "Himself, all-powerful and eternal. That's what he wants."
Rowling also stated that Voldemort's conception by influence of Amortentia—a love potion administered by his mother, a witch named Merope Gaunt, to the Muggle Tom Riddle—is related to his inability to understand love; it is "a symbolic way of showing that he came from a loveless union—but of course, everything would have changed if Merope had survived and raised him herself and loved him. The enchantment under which Tom Riddle fathered Voldemort is important because it shows coercion, and there can't be many more prejudicial ways to enter the world than as the result of such a union".
Like most archetypical villains, Voldemort's arrogance leads to his downfall. He also suffers from a pathological fear of death, which he regards as a shameful and ignominious human weakness. According to Rowling, his Boggart would be his own corpse. Rowling also said that the difference between Harry and Voldemort is that Harry accepts mortality, and thus Harry is, in the end, stronger than his nemesis.

Magical abilities and skills
Rowling establishes Voldemort throughout the series as an extremely powerful, intelligent, and ruthless dark wizard, described as the greatest and most powerful Dark Wizard of all time. He is known as one of the greatest Legilimens in the world and a highly accomplished Occlumens; he can read minds and shield his own from penetration. Besides Dumbledore, he is also the only wizard ever known to be able to apparate silently. Voldemort was also said to fear one wizard alone, Dumbledore.
In the final book, Voldemort flies unsupported, something that amazes those who see it. Voldemort, like his ancestral family, the Gaunts, is a Parselmouth, meaning he can converse with serpents. This skill was inherited from his ancestor, Salazar Slytherin. The Gaunt family speak Parseltongue among themselves. This highly unusual trait may be preserved through inbreeding, a practice employed by the Gaunt Family to maintain their blood's purity. When Voldemort attempts to kill Harry his ability to speak Parseltongue is passed to Harry through the small bit of the former's soul. After that bit of soul is destroyed, Harry loses this ability. In a flashback in the sixth novel, Voldemort boasts to Dumbledore during a job interview that he has "pushed the boundaries of magic farther than they had ever before". Dumbledore states that Voldemort's knowledge of magic is more extensive than any wizard alive and that even Dumbledore's most powerful protective spells and charms would likely be insufficient if Voldemort returned to full power. Dumbledore also said that Voldemort was probably the most brilliant student Hogwarts has ever seen. Although Voldemort remains highly accomplished and prodigious in skill, he is enormously lacking and highly inept in the most powerful magic, love. This inability to love and trust others proves to be Voldemort's greatest weakness in the series. Voldemort initially voices scepticism that his own magic might not be the most powerful, but upon returning to power, he admits to his Death Eaters that he had overlooked the ancient and powerful magic which Lily Potter invoked and that would protect Harry from harm.
On her website, Rowling wrote that Voldemort's wand is made of yew, whose sap is poisonous, and which symbolises death. It forms a deliberate contrast to Harry's wand, which is made of holly, which she chose because holly is alleged to repel evil.
Rowling establishes in the books that Voldemort is magically connected to Harry via Harry's forehead scar. He disembodies himself when his Killing Curse targeting Harry rebounds on him, leaving the scar on Harry's forehead. In the books, and to a lesser extent in the films, Harry's scar serves as an indicator of Voldemort's presence: it burns when the Dark Lord is near or when Voldemort is feeling murderous or exultant. According to Rowling, by attacking Harry when he was a baby Voldemort gave him "tools [that] no other wizard possessed—the scar and the ability it conferred, a magical window into Voldemort's mind".

Family
Voldemort was born Tom Marvolo Riddle on 31 December 1926. His mother Merope died in childbirth, leaving the baby to grow up alone in an orphanage. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, it is revealed that Voldemort murdered his father and grandparents, leaving himself the only surviving member of the Riddle family.

House of Gaunt
Most of the exposition of the House of Gaunt's background occurs in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, through the medium of Dumbledore's Pensieve. The Gaunts were once a powerful and influential family, and are the last known descendants of Salazar Slytherin. However, a vein of mental instability and violence within the family, reinforced through cousin marriages intended to preserve the pureblood line, had reduced them to poverty and squalor, as shown in the Pensieve's "memory" that Harry and Dumbledore witnessed. Like Salazar Slytherin, the Gaunts spoke Parseltongue. At the time of the story, the Gaunts' only material asset is a ramshackle shanty in Little Hangleton, that stood in a thicket in a valley opposite the Riddle House. Like the Riddles, the Gaunts were also unpopular with the local residents, with a reputation for being vulgar and intimidating.
Marvolo Gaunt was the last family patriarch. He was sentenced to a short term in Azkaban for his and his son's assault upon a Ministry of Magic official; this affected his health and he died soon after returning home. His signet ring passed to his son, Morfin Gaunt, who was convicted of assaulting a Muggle, and later died in Azkaban, convicted this time as a party to the murder of Tom Riddle Sr and Riddle's parents.
Dumbledore discovers the real culprit while visiting Morfin in Azkaban to gather information about Voldemort. After Dumbledore successfully extracts Morfin's memory of his encounter with his nephew, he tries to use the evidence to have Morfin released, but Morfin dies before the decision can be made. The House of Gaunt ended with Morfin's death.
Merope Gaunt () was the daughter of Marvolo, and sister of Morfin. Harry's first impression of her was that she looked "like the most defeated person he had ever seen". She married Tom Riddle Sr and became pregnant within three months of the wedding. It is suggested that she tricked her husband into loving her by using a love potion, but sometime during her pregnancy, chose to stop administering the potion. It is implied that Merope had grown tired of living the lie and thought that her husband might have grown to love her, or that he might have stayed for the sake of their unborn child; however, he left her. Desperate, Merope wandered through the streets of London. The only thing she had left was the heavy gold locket that had once belonged to Salazar Slytherin, one of her family's most treasured items, which she sold for a small amount. When she was due to give birth, she stumbled into a Muggle orphanage, where she gave birth to her only son. She died within the next hour.

Reception
Several people have drawn a parallel between Voldemort and some politicians. Rowling has said that Voldemort was "a sort of" Adolf Hitler, and that there is some parallel with Nazism in her books. Rowling also compared Voldemort to Joseph Stalin. Alfonso Cuarón, director of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, compared Voldemort to George W. Bush and Saddam Hussein, who he said "have selfish interests and are very much in love with power. Also, a disregard for the environment. A love for manipulating people." Andrew Slack and the Harry Potter Alliance compare media consolidation in the US to Voldemort's regime in Deathly Hallows and its control over the Daily Prophet and other media, saying, "Once Voldemort took over every form of media in the wizarding world, Dumbledore's Army and the Order of the Phoenix formed an independent media movement called 'Potterwatch'. Now the HP Alliance and Wizard Rock have come together to fight for a Potterwatch movement in the real world to fight back against Big VoldeMedia from further pushing out local and foreign news, minority representation, and the right to a Free Press." Julia Turner of Slate Magazine also noted similarities between the events of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and the war on terror. She said that Voldemort commits acts of terrorism such as destroying bridges, murdering innocents, and forcing children to kill their elders. Rowling compared Voldemort to Donald Trump during his 2016 presidential campaign.
Voldemort has also been compared to other fictional characters, such as Sauron from The Lord of the Rings, as both villains, during the main plot of those series, seek to recover their lost power after having been considered dead or neutralized as a threat, and are also so feared that they are sometimes unnamed.
The entertainment website IGN listed Voldemort as the seventh best Harry Potter character, calling him "truly frightening".

In popular culture
Several campaigns have used Voldemort to compare his evil to the influence of politicians, large media and corporations. "Lord Voldemort" is a nickname sometimes used for Peter Mandelson. Voldemort is also a recurring theme among wizard rock bands. Voldemort Can't Stop the Rock! is the second album from Harry and the Potters, and the character is mentioned in songs such as "The Dark Lord Lament" and "Flesh, Blood, and Bone".
Voldemort also appears in The Potter Puppet Pals sketches by Neil Cicierega. One of the episodes including him was the seventeenth most viewed video of all time as of 2008 and the winner for "Best Comedy" of the year 2007 at YouTube.
"Continuing the Magic", an article in the 21 May 2007 issue of Time, includes mock book covers designed by author Lon Tweeten, laced with pop culture references. One of them, the "Dark Lord of the Dance", shows Voldemort teaming up with Harry on Broadway. In the Mad magazine parodies of the films, the character is called Lord Druckermort, a backwards reference to the magazine's longtime caricaturist Mort Drucker. In Alan Moore's League of Extraordinary Gentlemen: 1969, a young Tom Marvolo Riddle (introduced as "Tom", whose middle name is a "marvel" and last name is a "conundrum") appears, and becomes the new avatar of Oliver Haddo at the story's conclusion. In A Very Potter Musical, Voldemort is played by actor Joe Walker.
In 2011, Voldemort was one of eight British magical figures, which included characters from Arthurian legend, The Chronicles of Narnia, and Discworld, commemorated on a series of UK postage stamps issued by the Royal Mail.
In a segment celebrating British children's literature at the 2012 Summer Olympics opening ceremony in London, an inflatable Voldemort appeared alongside other villains, The Queen of Hearts, Captain Hook, and Cruella de Vil, to haunt children's dreams, before the arrival of a group of over thirty Mary Poppins who descended with their umbrellas to defeat them.
In 2015, British activist Maajid Nawaz used and popularized the term Voldemort effect to describe the inability to name, shame and isolate Islamist extremism from the moderate Muslim community.
During the 2016 United States elections, Daniel Radcliffe was asked by Sky News journalist Craig Dillon if he would compare Donald Trump to Lord Voldemort; Radcliffe responded, "Trump is worse".
Voldemort appears in The Lego Batman Movie as one of the prisoners in the Phantom Zone that Joker recruits to take over Gotham City. Though Ralph Fiennes is featured in this movie as the voice of the British butler Alfred Pennyworth, he does not reprise his role as Voldemort. Instead, Voldemort is voiced by Eddie Izzard.
Outside of the Harry Potter video games, Voldemort is also a playable character in Lego Dimensions, with archive audio of Fiennes' portrayal in the films used for his voiceovers.
A 2018 Italian fan film titled Voldemort: Origins of the Heir depicts the story of Tom Riddle's rise to power.
Voldemort appears in Space Jam: A New Legacy, in the crowd for the game between the Tune Squad and the Goon Squad.
An upcoming French fan-made short-film titled The House of Gaunt - Lord Voldemort Origins explores the origin story of Voldemort and The Gaunt family.
In the Breaking Bad spinoff Better Call Saul, Saul Goodman, speaking to Mike Ehrmantraut, nicknames the drug lord Gus Fring 'He Who Shall Not Be Named' in reference to Voldemort.
In May 2022, senior Australian Labor Party MP Tanya Plibersek compared former defence minister Peter Dutton from the Liberal Party of Australia to Voldemort. During a discussion about Dutton's prospects of becoming Liberal Party leader on Brisbane radio station 4BC, she said: "I think there will be a lot of children who have watched a lot of Harry Potter films who will be very frightened of what they are seeing on TV at night, that's for sure... I am saying he looks a bit like Voldemort and we will see whether he can do what he promised he would do when he was last running for leader which is smile more." A spokesperson from Plibersek's office said that she had reached out to Dutton soon after the interview to offer an unreserved apology and to say that she should have not made the remark. Labor Party leader, prime minister Anthony Albanese said Pilbersek's comments were "not acceptable" and that she had done the right thing in offering an apology. Dutton confirmed Plibersek had apologised. In response, Dutton said that while the comments were unfortunate, they were "water off a duck's back." He said that he realised that he was "not the prettiest bloke on the block" and said that he was bald due to being diagnosed with a skin condition.


================================================================================

# Voldemort effect

The Voldemort effect is an informal term applied to several social and psychological phenomena involving the avoidance of naming, acknowledging or directly discussing a person, subject or perceived problem. The expression is derived from Lord Voldemort, the principal antagonist of the Harry Potter series, whose name is avoided by most characters, who instead refer to him by euphemisms such as "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named". The analogy generally suggests that avoiding the name of something because it is feared, controversial or uncomfortable can reinforce its taboo status or impede discussion of it.
An early documented use of the expression appeared in Australian research concerning the communication of health outcomes associated with infant feeding. The expression has since been applied in several distinct contexts. In health research, it has described avoidance of explicitly naming an exposure or diagnosis, while in political commentary it has referred both to reluctance to name a perceived problem and, in a separate formulation, to intense opposition increasing a political figure's standing among supporters. The analogy has also been invoked in research on affect labelling, concerning the effects of putting emotional states into words. These usages have conceptual connections with denial and avoidance coping, but do not describe a single, standardised phenomenon.

Origin and early usage

In a 2008 working paper, Julie P. Smith, Mark D. Dunstone and Megan E. Elliott-Rudder examined how research comparing breastfeeding and formula feeding presented differences in infant health outcomes. The authors used the character of Lord Voldemort as an analogy for what they regarded as a reluctance to explicitly identify formula feeding as a health-risk exposure. The researchers systematically examined the titles and abstracts of 78 studies that reported poorer health outcomes among formula-fed infants. They classified titles according to whether they identified formula feeding as the risk exposure, presented the findings neutrally, or instead framed breastfeeding as the relevant exposure. The authors argued that treating breastfeeding as the exposure implicitly positioned formula feeding as the normal or reference condition.
The analysis found that formula feeding was explicitly identified as the health risk exposure in only about 6 per cent of article titles. Approximately 30 per cent of titles were classified by the researchers as misleading because their wording implied that breastfeeding itself altered health risk rather than presenting formula feeding as the exposure associated with poorer outcomes. The effect was also apparent in abstracts: only 11 per cent identified formula feeding as an exposure associated with increased health risk, while most either described breastfeeding as beneficial or did not identify the feeding method associated with the increased risk. Smith and colleagues termed this pattern the "Voldemort effect". They argued that the language used to communicate research findings could influence how health professionals understood the relative health outcomes associated with breastfeeding and formula feeding. Because clinicians often rely on article titles and abstracts when encountering medical research, the authors suggested that systematically framing breastfeeding as the intervention and formula feeding as an unnamed norm could contribute to deficiencies in professional knowledge and consequently affect support for breastfeeding. A revised version of the research was published in the peer-reviewed Journal of Human Lactation in 2009 as "Health Professional Knowledge of Breastfeeding: Are the Health Risks of Infant Formula Feeding Accurately Conveyed by the Titles and Abstracts of Journal Articles?" The published article retained the analysis of 78 studies and reported the same general pattern, describing a "surprising silence" concerning formula feeding in the literature examined.
In 2013, American Christian author Rich Melheim employed the expression in his book Holding Your Family Together: 5 Simple Steps to Help Bring Your Family Closer to God and Each Other. Melheim used the Voldemort analogy in discussing problems that families may be reluctant to acknowledge openly because they are frightening, uncomfortable or difficult to confront. Drawing on the avoidance of Voldemort's name in the Harry Potter series, he argued that refusing to name a problem could contribute to the power it exercised over those affected by it. Melheim encouraged readers to identify a troubling person or problem directly rather than maintaining what he characterised as an "unspeakable" status around it. He argued that openly identifying the source of a problem could shift attention away from the fear or mythology surrounding it and towards confronting the problem itself.

Political usage

Julian Sanchez
In January 2011, American political commentator Julian Sanchez independently used the term "Voldemort effect" for a different phenomenon in partisan politics. Rather than referring to an unwillingness to name a feared subject, Sanchez used the expression to describe a process in which intense opposition to a political figure can itself contribute to that person's prominence and standing among supporters.
Sanchez derived his analogy from a different aspect of the Harry Potter story. He noted that both Harry Potter and Neville Longbottom initially appeared capable of fulfilling a prophecy concerning a child who could defeat Lord Voldemort. Voldemort ultimately selected Harry as the greater threat and attacked him, thereby "marking" Harry as his equal and helping to bring about the circumstances described by the prophecy. Sanchez compared this with the way political opponents can inadvertently elevate the figures they most strongly attack, effectively helping to select and define the opposing side's political champions. Sanchez applied the idea particularly to American partisan politics. He observed that strongly committed partisans sometimes cite a political figure's ability to anger or provoke the opposing side as a reason for admiring them. He identified Sarah Palin as a prominent example, arguing that hostility towards Palin among liberals had itself become part of her appeal to conservative supporters. In this interpretation, attacks from political opponents can function as evidence to supporters that a figure is effectively confronting their ideological adversaries.
He nevertheless characterised the process as bipartisan rather than inherently conservative. Sanchez suggested that political figures—and especially commentators and pundits—could acquire prominence partly because they were attacked with unusual intensity by the opposing political camp. This could create a feedback process in which each side's hostility helped determine which personalities became influential on the other. Writing in Reason later that month, Brian Doherty discussed Sanchez's argument as an explanation for Palin's political prominence and similarly described the proposed effect as one in which ideological opponents can effectively help "choose" one another's leading adversaries. Matthew Yglesias also discussed Sanchez's formulation shortly after its publication, helping to circulate the expression in American political commentary. Sanchez's formulation is therefore distinct from the avoidance-based meaning of the "Voldemort effect" found in health research and in later political commentary: its central analogy concerns an adversary inadvertently helping to create or elevate the opponent whom they most fear or dislike.

Islamism and extremism

The expression received wider media attention in 2015 in discussions concerning Islamism, jihadism and responses to Islamic extremism. In July, British counter-extremism researcher Haras Rafiq criticised what he regarded as a reluctance among Western political leaders to explicitly identify Islamist ideology when discussing extremist violence. Rafiq compared this reluctance with the taboo surrounding Voldemort's name in the Harry Potter series, describing the situation as a "Voldemort effect". He argued that avoiding the ideological dimension of the issue impeded efforts to challenge extremist recruitment and narratives.
British activist and former Islamist Maajid Nawaz developed a similar use of the expression later that year. During an October interview on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation programme Lateline, Nawaz explained the analogy by referring to two responses to Voldemort within the fictional wizarding community: characters were reluctant to pronounce his name and, after his return, reluctant to acknowledge that he existed. Nawaz applied the analogy to what he considered an unwillingness to explicitly identify and discuss Islamism as a distinct political ideology.
Nawaz defined Islamism in the interview as the desire to impose a version of Islam upon society and distinguished the ideology from Islam as a religion. He argued that failing to make this distinction could have the unintended effect of making discussion of Islamist extremism more difficult. According to Nawaz, acknowledging Islamism as an ideology while distinguishing it from Muslims generally would allow it to be challenged without treating Islam itself or Muslims collectively as the problem. He consequently advocated what he called a "full spectrum" civil-society response to Islamism, involving schools, the media, politicians and campaigners alongside legal and, where necessary, military measures against violent organisations. In his account, the ideological component of the response had been comparatively neglected; overcoming the "Voldemort effect" therefore meant openly identifying and contesting Islamist ideas rather than restricting responses to security measures.

Nawaz elaborated on the concept in his December 2015 essay "How to Beat Islamic State", published in The Wall Street Journal. He argued that some political leaders and commentators were hesitant to explicitly identify Islamist ideology because they feared that references to Islam would be interpreted as attributing responsibility to Muslims generally. Nawaz rejected both the position that the Islamic State was wholly unrelated to Islam and the opposing claim that the organisation represented Islam as a whole. Instead, he argued that Islamism and its violent expression, jihadism, needed to be identified, understood and distinguished from the wider Muslim population in order to be effectively opposed.
For Nawaz, the Voldemort analogy also concerned the consequences of avoidance. He argued that fear of naming and acknowledging a perceived threat could increase public anxiety and inadvertently enhance the threat's perceived power. In his application of the metaphor, openly identifying Islamism was therefore intended both to facilitate criticism of the ideology and to prevent jihadist movements from benefiting from an exaggerated image of themselves as uniquely powerful or representative of Muslims generally. Nawaz subsequently gave a similar explanation in an interview published by Big Think. He argued that reluctance to distinguish Islamism and Islamist extremism from Islam could make the problem more difficult to address. Again invoking Harry Potter, he described the fictional refusal both to name Voldemort and to acknowledge his existence as producing greater fear and contributing to Voldemort's status as an apparently all-powerful figure. The avoidance-based political usage associated with Rafiq and Nawaz is therefore closer to the earlier health-research usage of the expression than to Sanchez's 2011 formulation. In both the health and Islamism contexts, the metaphor centres on a perceived reluctance to explicitly name or acknowledge something regarded as problematic, whereas Sanchez's formulation concerns the unintended elevation of an adversary through intense opposition.

Psychology and health

The Voldemort analogy has appeared in psychological and health research concerning avoidance, fear, emotional regulation and the use of indirect or euphemistic language. In these contexts, it generally concerns the difficulty of explicitly naming something perceived as threatening. These applications do not establish the "Voldemort effect" as a formally recognised psychological effect or diagnosis, but use the fictional taboo surrounding Voldemort's name as an analogy for patterns of avoidance and emotional processing.

Dementia
Psychologist Richard Cheston has applied the related term Voldemort phenomenon to the way some people affected by dementia avoid explicitly naming dementia or Alzheimer's disease when discussing their condition. Individuals may instead acknowledge particular difficulties, such as memory loss, or employ euphemisms, figurative expressions and indirect references. Cheston associated this pattern with what he termed a "fear-of-loss-of-control" marker. In accounts given by people affected by dementia, fear of losing control could be associated with avoidance of naming the illness, feelings of shame and concerns about a loss of self or identity. Explicitly using the word "dementia" may carry implications extending beyond recognition of memory difficulties, including acknowledgement of the possible progression of the condition and its effects on independence and personal identity.
The phenomenon has also been investigated in group psychotherapy. Cheston and colleagues analysed verbal material from seven "Living Well with Dementia" (LivDem) therapy groups involving people who had recently received a dementia diagnosis. Recordings were analysed using the Markers of Assimilation of Problematic Experiences of Dementia (MAPED), a method designed to assess changes in how participants talked about and engaged with their diagnosis.
During the earlier sessions, participants were more likely to display markers associated with limited acknowledgement or avoidance of the diagnosis. In later sessions, direct references to dementia became more common and statements demonstrating greater recognition or "insight" increased. The authors interpreted this change as evidence that participants had become more able to assimilate the diagnosis into their understanding of their experiences. The LivDem intervention consisted of eight weekly therapy sessions, preceded and followed by sessions involving family members or friends. Early sessions encouraged discussion of memory loss, while subsequent sessions addressed the relationship between memory and stress, different forms of dementia, disclosure of the diagnosis and practical approaches to living with the condition. The findings illustrate Cheston's Voldemort analogy: a person may acknowledge cognitive difficulties associated with dementia while avoiding explicitly naming the diagnosis.

Affect labelling
Research has found that explicitly naming emotions can alter emotional responses, including reductions in amygdala activation under some experimental conditions.
Vives and colleagues explicitly invoked Harry Potter when introducing their study of affect labelling. They noted that Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter were unusual among characters in their willingness to call Voldemort by name, presenting this as a fictional example of directly labelling a source of fear. The authors compared the idea that avoiding Voldemort's name contributed to the fear surrounding him with psychological evidence that putting emotions into words can help regulate emotional responses. Previous experimental research discussed by Vives and colleagues found that affect labelling can reduce emotional arousal, including decreased amygdala activation when participants identify emotions expressed by faces. Other studies indicated that verbalising emotional experiences may have longer-term effects; for example, greater use of emotional words during exposure therapy has been associated with reduced physiological reactivity to a feared stimulus at later testing.
Vives and colleagues investigated whether this regulatory effect depended on the language in which an emotion was named. Twenty-six unbalanced bilingual participants underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while labelling emotional facial expressions in either their native or a foreign language. Affect labelling in the native language was associated with lower amygdala activation than affective matching. In a foreign language, however, the same reduction was not observed, and amygdala activation was higher during foreign-language than native-language affect labelling.
The authors proposed that the greater cognitive demands of processing a less proficient foreign language could interfere with emotional regulation. They considered possible mechanisms for affect labelling including distraction, self-reflection, conversion of emotional experience into symbolic representation and reduction of uncertainty, concluding that the additional cognitive demands and weaker semantic representations associated with a foreign language could interfere with the regulatory process. The study provides a psychological parallel to the Voldemort metaphor rather than evidence for a distinct psychological mechanism called the "Voldemort effect". Whereas the dementia research concerns avoidance of a threatening diagnostic name, affect-labelling research examines whether explicitly putting emotional states into words can modify emotional responses. Both applications therefore draw on the relationship between naming and fear in the Harry Potter narrative without establishing a single underlying psychological phenomenon.

COVID-19 pandemic
The expression was also applied to responses to COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic. In August 2020, Emiley Bailey, writing in the student newspaper Indiana Statesman at Indiana State University, used the term "Voldemort effect" to criticise declining adherence to social distancing and other precautions as students returned to college. Bailey compared attitudes towards the pandemic with the response to Voldemort's return in the Harry Potter series, in which some members of the wizarding community attempt to continue their ordinary lives while refusing to acknowledge the seriousness or existence of the threat.
Bailey drew a parallel between the fictional denial of Voldemort's return and people who denied the existence or seriousness of COVID-19, as well as those who disregarded measures intended to limit its transmission. In this usage, the analogy concerned not only avoidance of a name but the broader refusal to acknowledge or respond to a perceived threat. Unlike the psychological applications described above, Bailey's use was an example of the metaphor in health-related social commentary rather than a psychological or epidemiological concept.

Concept and related phenomena

The different uses of the expression draw upon the broader phenomenon of naming taboo and avoidance speech, in which particular people, objects or subjects are not referred to directly and may instead be designated by euphemisms, titles or indirect expressions. Naming taboos have occurred in numerous cultural and historical contexts, although the reasons for avoiding a name vary and may include fear, reverence, social convention or beliefs concerning the power associated with names.
In the Harry Potter novels, Voldemort's name functions as a taboo name among much of the wizarding population. Characters commonly refer to him indirectly as "You-Know-Who" or "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named", reflecting the widespread fear associated with him. Compagnone and Danesi have examined naming in the series as part of its broader use of mythic and occult naming strategies, in which names and the act of naming carry symbolic significance. Within the narrative, Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter are unusual in their willingness to use Voldemort's name openly, treating avoidance of the name as contributing to the fear surrounding him. In its avoidance-based usage, the Voldemort effect therefore concerns more than the substitution of one word for another. A euphemism may simply provide a milder, more polite or less offensive expression, whereas writers invoking the Voldemort effect generally suggest that avoidance of the name reflects or perpetuates an unwillingness to confront the underlying subject. The perceived "effect" lies in the consequences attributed to this avoidance: the subject may acquire greater taboo status, communication about it may become less direct, or recognition of a perceived problem may be impeded.

Distinction from related concepts
A person may recognise that something exists while avoiding its name, whereas denial involves rejecting or failing to acknowledge the underlying reality itself. Some uses of the Voldemort analogy encompass both behaviours. Maajid Nawaz, for example, distinguished between refusing to name a perceived problem and refusing to acknowledge its existence, treating both as components of what he called the Voldemort effect. The avoidance-based meaning should also be distinguished from Julian Sanchez's 2011 political formulation of the "Voldemort effect". Sanchez's analogy did not principally concern the taboo against saying Voldemort's name. Instead, it drew upon Voldemort's selection of Harry as his principal enemy, which helped bring about the circumstances of the prophecy he sought to prevent. Sanchez used this as an analogy for political groups inadvertently elevating opposing figures by concentrating hostility and attention upon them.
His formulation consequently has some conceptual similarity to processes in which opposition or attempted suppression unintentionally increases a person's prominence, but it remains distinct from the avoidance-based usage. The term itself remains primarily an informal metaphor rather than a single standardised concept in psychology, sociology or political science. Its documented applications encompass health communication, dementia and psychotherapy research, political commentary and debates concerning political and religious extremism. Although these applications differ, most exploit some aspect of the relationship between Voldemort's name, fear and power in the Harry Potter narrative.


================================================================================

# Voldemort: Origins of the Heir

Voldemort: Origins of the Heir is an English-language Italian fantasy film directed by Gianmaria Pezzato and with Stefano Prestia as executive producer. It is an unofficial fan-made prequel to the Harry Potter film series. Voldemort: Origins of the Heir depicts the story of Tom Riddle's rise to power as a dark wizard and main antagonist in the Harry Potter saga. Several original characters are introduced in the film: not only the protagonist, but also the other Hogwarts houses' heirs, and several minor characters for the plot.
The official teaser trailer was released on Facebook and YouTube in June 2017. The Facebook video exceeded 30 million views in less than 48 hours. On  1 December 2017, the final trailer was released on YouTube. The film was not released in cinemas but is available to view for free on YouTube. It was uploaded for viewing on 13 January 2018 and by March 2018 had received over 15 million views. Reception to the film has been generally mixed with criticism levelled at the actors (specifically their ages) and direction, but praise for the special effects and production values.

Plot
As a flashback, Tom Riddle is shown packing his bags and preparing to leave his house. As he does so, he pauses over a photograph of himself and three other students before abandoning it. In the present, Grisha McLaggen is attempting to break into a Soviet Auror warehouse, but despite defeating many of the guards is captured and fed an intravenous drip of Veritaserum while questioned by the KGB General Makarov. In a mixture of flashbacks and present tense a Soviet reconnaissance team finds a chest filled with dark objects, including Riddle's diary, but are killed soon after opening it. In the warehouse, Grisha explains that she was a student with Riddle at Hogwarts, who along with Wiglaf Sigurdsson and Lazarus Smith were the true heirs of the Hogwarts founders (Gryffindor, Slytherin, Ravenclaw, and Hufflepuff, respectively). The heirs formed a club dedicated to "making the world a better place". When an argument occurred between Lazarus and Riddle over Grisha's affections, they fell out. Grisha noted Riddle was becoming distant to them all and changed completely after the incident. Over the last few years Grisha has become an Auror and dedicated herself to tracking down Riddle in the belief she can save him from himself and the dark path.
Under further questioning and flashbacks, it is shown how Riddle stole both Hufflepuff's cup and Slytherin's locket from Hepzibah Smith before killing her and framing her house-elf Hokey, and that Grisha believes he intends to create Horcruxes. She thinks that Riddle's diary – the artefact she was trying to retrieve from the warehouse – will give her a clue as to either his whereabouts, or his intent. She also explains that he has since killed both Lazarus and Wiglaf, and it is implied that he has already started using the name "Voldemort".
After deliberation, Makarov says that he believes her story because she was under the influence of Veritaserum when she told it – yet just because she believes it does not actually mean that it is true; she could be mistaken in her belief. However, he is not willing to take the chance, as the threat of Gellert Grindelwald is still a recent memory and so gives her the diary, saying, "it is a Brit problem", and that they should deal with it. Grisha is released, returned her personal belongings and allowed to leave. As she leaves, Makarov asks her how she knew they had the diary, and Grisha replies, "I didn't – or maybe I did..." before transfiguring into Voldemort and killing Makarov and his assembled guards.
The film ends with a flashback to a second reconnaissance team finding the chest and recovering it. The two Soviets discuss the contents, mentioning that the bones are female (the implication being that they are Grisha's) and what they mean, with one grimly concluding that there must be darkness in order for there to be light.

Cast
Stefano Rossi as Tom Marvolo Riddle, a dark wizard and Hogwarts student, heir of Salazar Slytherin.
Davide Ellena as Lord Voldemort.
Maddalena Orcali as Grisha McLaggen, Hogwarts student, and Heir of Godric Gryffindor. Orcali also narrates the trailer.
Aurora Moroni as young Grisha McLaggen.
Andrea Deanesi as Wiglaf Sigurdsson, the Heir of Rowena Ravenclaw.
Andrea Baglio as young Wiglaf Sigurdsson.
Andrea Bonfanti as Lazarus Smith, the Heir of Helga Hufflepuff.
Gelsomina Bassetti as Hepzibah Smith, Lazarus Smith's aunt and noted descendant of Helga Hufflepuff.
Alessio Dalla Costa as General Makarov, a senior Soviet Auror.

Voice actors
Mitchell Thornton as Tom Marvolo Riddle and Lord Voldemort.
Amy Davies as Grisha McLaggen.
Rasmus Bækgaard as General Makarov.
Rorie Stockton as Lazarus Smith and Igor.
Stefan Chanyaem as Wiglaf Sigurdsson.
Margaret Ashley as Hepzibah Smith.
Biscarte Hazencruz as Veteran Soviet Auror.
Masha Bazhenova as Loudspeaker Voice.

Development
The film was conceived by Pezzato and Prestia as an unofficial prequel to the Harry Potter film series and initially crowdfunded on Kickstarter in 2016. A trailer for the film was officially released in June 2017 through Tryangle Films.

Litigation
Litigation with Warner Bros. ended the crowdfunding due to copyright violations. The defendants agreed to not generate profit.

Reception
Reception to the film has been generally mixed, with most reviews complimenting the special effects and production values, whilst criticising the acting and direction. Kat Brown of The Telegraph gave the film "Two warm drinks out of five", noting that while "the cast are uniformly gorgeous", they were far too old to portray their ages accurately – "Moroni, supposedly playing an 11-year-old second year, is one lollipop away from being an inappropriate fancy dress costume".  Brown was more appreciative of the technical aspects, stating that the magic was impressive, highlighting the use of moving photographs, owls and filming locations.  Calla Wahlquist of The Guardian makes similar comments, that "Pezzato does weird things with camera angles", and that "the English dubbing is not great", but counterpoints it with the statement that "the visual effects are, in many places, better than the multimillion-dollar Warner Brothers movies. The costuming and sets are also good" and that she enjoyed the twist ending. Rick Austin writing for Fortress of Solitude is equally dismissive, albeit for different reasons, speaking highly of Pezzato's directing, but criticising "the story, the casting, the acting, the poor dubbing, the scattershot editing and the production design."  Common to other reviewers, Austin was critical of the ages of the actors against their supposed characters, but impressed by the special effects.

Crew


================================================================================

# Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter

Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter is a walk-through exhibition and studio tour in Leavesden, Hertfordshire, England, owned by Warner Bros. and operated by their Studio Tours division. It is located within Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden, which is located in Watford, southwest Hertfordshire, and houses a permanent exhibition of authentic costumes, props, and sets utilised in the production of the Harry Potter films, as well as behind-the-scenes production of visual effects. The tour is contained in Soundstages J and K, which were specially built for the attraction, and are separate from the studio's actual production facilities.
Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter opened to the public in 2012 and has since welcomed over 7,000 visitors a day during peak times. TripAdvisor reported that the tour has been the highest-rated attraction worldwide every year since its inauguration.

History

Leavesden Aerodrome was a British airfield created in 1940 by the de Havilland Aircraft Company & the Air Ministry in the tiny village of Leavesden, between Watford and Abbots Langley, in Hertfordshire. It was an important centre for aircraft production during World War II. By the end of the war Leavesden Airfield was, by volume, the largest factory in the world.
After the war, the aerodrome was purchased outright by de Havilland, who themselves had a succession of owners in the following decades but ultimately they and the site were acquired by Rolls-Royce. However, by the early 1990s, Britain's manufacturing industry was in decline and Rolls-Royce had sold their interests in the site. Unable to find a new owner, Leavesden Aerodrome was left disused and all but abandoned.
Then in 1994, the production team for the James Bond film GoldenEye discovered the unoccupied Leavesden. The wide, tall and open aircraft hangars were uniquely well suited to conversion into film stages. Eon leased the site for the duration of their shoot and went about gutting the factories, turning them into stages, workshops and offices - in short a working film studio. Leavesden Studios, as the site was rebranded by its owners, quickly became popular after GoldenEye wrapped. A succession of major feature films made use of the site, including the first of the Star Wars prequels, The Phantom Menace, and Tim Burton's Sleepy Hollow.
In 1999, Heyday Films leased the site for the Harry Potter films. Over the following ten years, all of the Harry Potter films were made there, along with some other notable Warner Bros. productions, with the Harry Potter series eventually becoming the most successful film series in history.
As the eighth and final film, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2, was nearing completion, in 2010, Warner Bros. announced their intention to purchase the studio as a permanent European base. By November of that year, Warner Bros. completed its purchase of Leavesden Studios and announced plans to invest more than £100m into the site they had occupied for over ten years, rebranding it again – this time to Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden.
As part of the redevelopment, Warner Bros. also created two new soundstages, J and K, to house a permanent public exhibition called Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter, creating 300 new jobs in the local area. Currently, the whole attraction is dedicated to the making of Harry Potter and is now home to many of the series' sets, props and costumes. It was opened to the public in early 2012.

Creation
As early as 2001, following the success of the first film, Warner Bros. were putting plans in place to build an attraction dedicated to the series and so began storing items from the films when they were no longer being used. In 2010, as the final film was nearing completion, Warner Bros. announced they would be purchasing Leavesden Studios and work on the tour began.
The tour's layout and overall presentation was designed by the Burbank-based Thinkwell Group in collaboration with Warner Bros, as well as the actual filmmakers, including production designer Stuart Craig, set dresser Stephenie McMillan, creature designer Nick Dudman, construction manager Paul Hayes and special effects supervisor John Richardson. It only includes sets, props and costumes that were created for or used in the production of the Harry Potter film series. Sets include the Great Hall, Dumbledore's office, Diagon Alley, the Ministry of Magic, the Gryffindor common room and boys' dormitory, Hagrid's hut and a 1:24 scale model of the Hogwarts castle (used for exterior shots).

Grand opening

Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter opened to the public on 31 March 2012. The opening event was attended by many of the Harry Potter film series' cast and crew members, including Rupert Grint, Tom Felton, Bonnie Wright, Evanna Lynch, Warwick Davis, David Thewlis, Helen McCrory, George Harris, Nick Moran, Natalia Tena, David Bradley, Alfred Enoch, Harry Melling, producers David Heyman and David Barron and directors David Yates, Alfonso Cuarón and Mike Newell. Since 2020, Harry Potter fans have been able to purchase bottled 'Butterbeer' exclusively at the tour.

Royal opening
Over a year since the opening of the tour (and nearly twenty years after the complex was converted from an aerodrome to film studios), the site was officially opened by Prince William and Catherine on 26 April 2013. On their royal visit, they were accompanied by Prince Harry and J. K. Rowling, author of the Harry Potter book series, who had been unable to attend the tour's grand opening the year before, amongst other guests. Several hundred beneficiaries of charities they all support were given exclusive invitations to the tour on the day of the royal visit. The royal entourage visited the tour and met many of their beneficiaries, as well as the studios, where they saw some of the props and costumes from Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight trilogy, before conducting Leavesden's royal opening.

Tour
Each tour session typically lasts three and a half hours, and the tour has the capacity to handle 6,000 visitors daily. Despite Warner Bros. being the studio behind Harry Potter, the tour is not styled as a theme park because Warner Bros. sold the licence to do so to Universal Studios. Instead, visitors get a chance to see up close the detail and effort that goes into a major feature film at the scale of the Harry Potter series.
Though the standard tour is self guided, allowing visitors to enjoy the tour at their own preferred pace, various guided tours are available at an additional cost. Visitors with some disabilities may find, however, that certain guided tours are available to them at no extra cost if they contact the tour in advance.
Diagon Alley is available to explore virtually on Google Street View.
A shuttle bus system for tour goers operates between Watford Junction and the Studio Tour.

Expansions
Warner Bros. has continued to put on special features for the school holidays, such as Dark Arts and Animal Actors, at no extra cost to visitors. Some installations like the Wand Choreography Interactive and the inside of the No. 4 Privet Drive Exterior set have been so popular that they have remained after their respective features have closed.

Platform 9¾
In January 2015, the attraction's first expansion was announced - a brand new Platform 9¾ section, where visitors are able to board the original carriages behind the Hogwarts Express steam engine used in the films. As with the rest of the attraction, the set was constructed and dressed by the original crew members who worked on the film - including Stuart Craig himself, who designed the new set exclusively for the tour (since these scenes in the films were actually shot on location in Kings Cross). The setup includes the steam locomotive used in the films GWR 4900 Hall class no 5972 Olton Hall (wearing Hogwarts Castle nameplates) and the British Rail Mark 1 carriage that appeared in the films, brought to life by John Richardson's special effects team. Finally a new green screen experience illustrates what working on the films is like from an actor's point of view. This section opened in late March 2015.

Forbidden Forest
The attraction's Forbidden Forest expansion opened in March 2017.

Gringotts Wizarding Bank
In April 2019 the Gringotts Wizarding Bank expansion opened. It is the largest expansion to date, at 16,500 ft2.

Professor Sprout's Greenhouse
On 1 July 2022, the Professor Sprout's Greenhouse expansion opened, as part of a new feature titled "Mandrakes and Magical Creatures".

Reception
The tour was warmly received by the press in the run up to its launch. Anita Singh of The Daily Telegraph described the model of Hogwarts Castle as "the highlight" of the tour.

Awards
The Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter has won several awards since its opening, including:

2013 Thea Award for Outstanding Achievement
2013 Telly Award for Editing
2013 Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence
2013 UKinbound Award for Individual Attraction of the Year
2012 Event Technology Silver Award for Best Use of Handheld Technology
2012 UK Customer Experience Award for Best Leisure & Retail Experience
2012 Group Leisure Award for Best UK Attraction
The tour has also been presented with awards for its lighting design, including the 2013 IES Illumination Award of Merit and 2013 Lighting Design Award for Lighting for Leisure.
In addition, the tour was named one of the 'Top 10 Most Innovative Entertainment Design Projects of 2012' by the website EntertainmentDesigner.com.


================================================================================

# Warner Bros. Studio Tour Shanghai – The Making of Harry Potter

Warner Bros. Studio Tour Shanghai – The Making of Harry Potter (Chinese: 華納兄弟工作室巡演：哈利波特制作特輯) is an upcoming studio tour and visitor attraction located in the Minhang District of Shanghai, China, owned by Warner Bros., operated by their Studio Tour division. The attraction is the third permanent The Making of Harry Potter Studio Tour in the world, following the original in London and its second location in Tokyo.

History
The project was officially announced by Warner Bros. Discovery and Jinjiang International in February 2025. The announcement followed a fast-tracked negotiation process, with construction expected to begin in the latter half of the same year. The attraction is part of a larger renovation and revitalization of the site of the old Jinjiang Action Park, which opened in 1984 and closed in January 2025 to commence the transformation.
The Shanghai facility is planned to be the largest Warner Bros. Studio Tour dedicated to the Wizarding World franchise globally, covering an area of approximately 53,000 square meters. The attraction is distinct from theme park experiences such as The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Studios Beijing, offering a museum-style, behind-the-scenes look at the filmmaking process.

Tour
The attraction is designed to be predominantly indoors, with about 90% of the visitor experience taking place inside soundstages and exhibits.
The Studio Tour is expected to operate on a full reservation system, requiring visitors to book a specific date and entry time in advance to manage crowd flow. The facility is projected to attract approximately 2 million visitors annually.

Transportation
The Studio Tour is being constructed at the site of Jinjiang Action Park in the Minhang District of Shanghai. The location is easily accessible, situated near the Shanghai Metro Line 1's Jinjiang Park station.


================================================================================

# Warner Bros. Studio Tour Tokyo – The Making of Harry Potter

Warner Bros. Studio Tour Tokyo – The Making of Harry Potter (ワーナー ブラザース スタジオツアー東京 ‐ メイキング・オブ・ハリー・ポッター, Wānā Burazāsu Sutajio Tsuā Tōkyō – Meikingu Obu Harī Pottā) is a walk-through exhibition tour in Tokyo, Japan, owned by Warner Bros. and operated by their Studio Tour division. It is located in Nerima, in northwest of Tokyo, and houses a permanent exhibition of authentic costumes, props, and sets utilised in the production of the Harry Potter films, as well as behind-the-scenes production of visual effects.

History
The development of the Warner Bros. Studio Tour Tokyo – The Making of Harry Potter is tied to the history of its location in Nerima, Tokyo.

Site Acquisition and Development
The Studio Tour was built on the grounds of the former Toshimaen Amusement Park, a historic recreational area that had operated for 94 years since its opening in 1926. In 2020, plans were finalized for the Tokyo Metropolitan Government to acquire a majority of the Toshimaen land to develop a new public park, with the remaining area being used for the new Harry Potter attraction. The amusement park officially closed on August 31, 2020, to make way for the development.
The project was a collaborative effort between Warner Bros. Studio Tour, Warner Bros. Japan, Seibu Railway, Itochu Corporation, and Fuyo General Lease, with the Studio Tour facilities being developed in conjunction with the new public park. Seibu Railway, which services the area, renovated Toshimaen Station (now called Toshimaen-mae Station) to feature a Harry Potter theme, including a station platform inspired by London's King's Cross.

Opening
The Warner Bros. Studio Tour Tokyo – The Making of Harry Potter was officially announced in August 2020. The attraction, which is the second of its kind in the world after the original in London, was promoted as the world's largest indoor Harry Potter attraction. The facility is a walk-through, behind-the-scenes entertainment experience, not a typical theme park with rides.
The Studio Tour officially opened its doors to the public on June 16, 2023. It offers unique features and sets that distinguish it from the London facility, while continuing to showcase the authentic costumes, props, and filmmaking secrets from the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts film series.

Tour
Unlike theme parks, the Studio Tour is not ride-based but focuses on showcasing authentic sets, original costumes, and props to reveal the artistry and filmmaking techniques used in the Wizarding World films.

Exhibits
The facility features many iconic sets recreated by the original filmmakers, including the Great Hall at Hogwarts. Guests can step onto Platform 9¾ to board the authentic Hogwarts Express and venture into the Forbidden Forest to encounter magical creatures. Further exploration continues on the outdoor Backlot, where familiar scenes like the Dursleys' house on Privet Drive and the triple-decker Knight Bus are on display.

Tokyo Exclusives
The Tokyo Studio Tour features several sets and experiences unique to the location, including a massive, full-scale recreation of the Ministry of Magic Atrium. Visitors can also take part in interactive green screen sets, such as appearing in a moving portrait on the Grand Staircase or cheering at a Quidditch match. The experience is completed with themed food and drink at places like the world's largest Butterbeer Bar, and access to the world's largest dedicated Harry Potter shop, featuring Tokyo-exclusive merchandise.


================================================================================

# Wizard People, Dear Reader

Wizard People, Dear Reader, released in 2004, is an unauthorized alternative soundtrack to Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, written by Brad Neely, a comic book artist from Fort Smith, Arkansas.
Wizard People, Dear Reader is a narrative retelling of the lives of the characters of The Philosopher's Stone and the world in which they live. Presented in the form of a thirty-five chapter audiobook, this soundtrack is intended to replace the film's audio track.

Origins
Brad Neely, in an interview with Chief magazine, described the beginning of the idea as follows: Anyway, we were at a bar and were getting a good laugh at a guy who was playing pool all by himself while wearing a hoody over his hat, sunglasses under that and headphones on the outside of all of it. So we started riffing on "What could he possibly be listening to?". Someone who I don't think was me said that he was listening to a book on tape of Harry Potter. And out came the Wizard People narrator. I joked that night that I was going to rush home and record an entire misinformed book on tape of The Sorcerer's Stone, because I had not and have not ever read any Harry Potter books. Once I started making notes for it I realized that an audio track alone could get boring, so I decided to sync it with the movie. Then I took a week or two and made the damn thing. I love it.

Presentations
In 2004, the New York Underground Film Festival rented a print of the film from Warner Bros., screened it with the sound off, and played Neely's soundtrack instead. Shortly thereafter, website Illegal Art made Neely's work available for free download. In the following year, Neely also performed Wizard People live in several cities, until Warner Bros. took action against theatres that had rented prints, and forced them to cancel the shows. Rather than taking legal action, however, Warner Bros. reportedly told theaters which had scheduled a performance of the show that further movies produced by the studio would be withheld unless the dates were cancelled. Carrie McLaren, whose website Illegal-art.net promoted the work, claimed that Neely's use of appropriated plot, characters and themes interlaced with humor constituted a separate work of art in its own right.

Humor and writing style
In Wizard People, Dear Reader, Neely's writing ranges from simple childish mockery, to criticism of the acting and set design, to awkward metaphors, to over-dramatic philosophical speeches. Harry himself is repeatedly referred to as a god, references are made to the "stockpiles of nuclear-level energy" that are his powers, and so on.  At one point, Harry calls himself a "beautiful animal" and a "destroyer of worlds". He also repeatedly affirms that he is "Harry fucking Potter". Numerous references are made to characters taking out unseen flasks or drinking alcohol, and Harry is mentioned as being "drunk every day before noon."
Hermione ("Harmony") is repeatedly described as incredibly ugly, Snape ("Snake") is referred to as a hideous woman, and at one point, Neely simply remarks that "Ron loves Twizzlers." (Ron is almost always referred to as "Ronnie the Bear.") A range of other insults see less consistent use, and Harry is also described with various symptoms of dissociative identity disorder, at one point "leaving his multiple personalities in the locker room." The use of spells receives similar twists, with Dumbledore ("Near-Dead Dumbledore") casting the "stand without effort" spell due to his advanced age, while Harry casts the "rarely used winter-begone spell" at a scene transition between winter and spring.
The work makes extensive use of simile: Professor McGonagall ("Hardcastle McCormick") is described as having a voice that is "chilling, like a piano made of frozen Windex," while her "eyes float like smears of fish-scales on her candle-wax stump of a head"; the face of Voldemort ("Val-Mart") "moves like a marmalade baby just out of the womb."
The soundtrack uses heavy descriptions of events, including events the viewer can plainly see: "Blam! Blaam! Blaaam! at the door. The Porktown family scuttles into position, but what busts in the door is far more than expected. It is Hägar the Horrible, the nightmare of hair, a wall of a man."
Neely segues into multiple fantasy sequences that have nothing to do with what is actually going on in the film. One such scene is where Hagrid ("Hägar the Horrible") is explaining Norbert's egg. Instead of regaling Hagrid's encounter with a strange man in a bar, Hägar tells of how Val-Mart impregnated him with the egg, resulting in his survival of a shark attack. Another such scene is where the trio of young wizards encounter Fluffy for the second time and are about to jump down the trap door. Harmony is allegedly decapitated and resurrected without those events occurring onscreen. One of the most elaborate divergences is the sequence where Neville ("the boy known as Upfish") loses control of his broom. Neely narrates Harry's daydream climbing his parents' giant rotten wedding cake thanks to Dumbledore's body ("using his old ribcage, mouth sockets and such for footholds"). As Harry goes to retrieve a winged key at the finale, Neely narrates that Harry goes into a waking dream-like trance. The entire scene is dominated by a rambling vision of Harry's in which he conquers the American continent with a telescope, teaching the natives spells, "and they in turn teach him how to fly across the continent at ridiculous speeds. He learns to slay deer with laser beams from his eyes, and how to make all things around the house out of buffalo parts".
There are also many references to other works throughout: Professor Flitwick is referred to as "Professor Ugnaught" in reference to his similar appearance to the Ugnaughts of Bespin in The Empire Strikes Back, while Val-Mart is made Harry's true father à la Darth Vader. At one point Harry puts on the invisibility cloak and Neely exclaims "Invisibility ON!", as per the Human Torch of the Fantastic Four. Hägar introduces himself as "gatekeeper and keymaster" in reference to Ghostbusters. Neely even refers to future Potter films when he claims that the children are on their way to the Chamber of Secrets.

Naming
A recurring theme in Wizard People is the changing of characters' and locations' names.

The CDs
This soundtrack is composed of two audio CDs, which were made available for free download in MP3 format. The CDs must be played simultaneously with a DVD of the first Harry Potter film, preferably the North American DVD, muted or at low volume.
Two versions of the CD set have been released: the first in summer 2004 and the second in early-mid-2005. As of February 2007, only the second version is available on the Illegal Art website, while the original is available at Brad Neely's website, Creased Comics. The two versions are very similar: differences include "fixing" the weaker lines from the first version, and a more polished and thoroughly-rehearsed performance by Brad.
The first version's CDs can be played completely continuously, and there is no need to alter the discs' timing or volume. In order to play the second version continuously, a delay of approximately three seconds must be inserted between the CDs, and the tracks' volume must be normalized, as the first disc is significantly quieter (approximately 7.7 decibels less) than the second.


================================================================================

# Wizarding World

The Wizarding World (previously known as J. K. Rowling's Wizarding World) is an epic high fantasy adventure media franchise and shared fictional universe centred on the Harry Potter novel series by J. K. Rowling. A series of films have been in production since 2000, and in that time eleven films have been produced—eight are adaptations of the Harry Potter novels and three are part of the Fantastic Beasts series. The films are owned and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures. The series has collectively grossed over $9.6 billion at the global box office, making it the fourth-highest-grossing film franchise of all time (behind the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Spider-Man and Star Wars).
David Heyman and his company Heyday Films have produced every film in the Wizarding World series. Chris Columbus and Mark Radcliffe served as producers on Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, David Barron began producing the films with Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix in 2007 and ending with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 in 2011, and Rowling produced the final two films in the Harry Potter series. Heyman, Rowling, Steve Kloves and Lionel Wigram have produced all three films in the Fantastic Beasts series. The films are written and directed by several individuals and feature large, often ensemble, casts. Many of the actors, including Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Tom Felton, Michael Gambon, Ralph Fiennes, Alan Rickman, Maggie Smith, Helena Bonham Carter, Gary Oldman, Eddie Redmayne, Katherine Waterston, Alison Sudol, and Dan Fogler star in numerous films. Additionally, Jude Law and Johnny Depp feature in two films each. Soundtrack albums have been released for each of the films. The franchise also includes a stage production (Harry Potter and the Cursed Child), a digital publication, a video game label and The Wizarding World of Harry Potter–themed areas at several Universal Destinations & Experiences amusement parks around the world.
The first film in the Wizarding World was Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001), which was followed by seven Harry Potter sequels, beginning with Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets in 2002 and ending with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 in 2011, nearly ten years after the first film's release. Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) is the first film in the spin-off/prequel Fantastic Beasts series. A sequel, titled Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, was released on 16 November 2018. A third film, Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore was released on 15 April 2022. The first Wizarding World-branded narrative video game, Hogwarts Legacy, was released in early 2023. Warner Bros. is also developing a television series for HBO, with a season adapting each of the seven Harry Potter books.

Harry Potter films

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001)

Harry Potter, a seemingly ordinary eleven-year-old boy, is actually a wizard and survivor of Lord Voldemort's attempted rise to power. Harry is rescued by Rubeus Hagrid from his unkind Muggle relatives, Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and his cousin Dudley, and takes his place at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he and his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger become entangled in the mystery of the Philosopher's Stone, which is being kept within the school.
In October 1998, Warner Bros. purchased the film rights to the first four novels of the Harry Potter fantasy series by J. K. Rowling for a seven-figure sum, after a pitch from producer David Heyman. Warner Bros. took particular notice of Rowling's wishes and thoughts about the films when drafting her contract. One of her principal stipulations was that they are shot in Britain with an all-British cast, which has been generally adhered to. On 8 August 2000, the then-unknown Daniel Radcliffe and newcomers Rupert Grint and Emma Watson were selected to play Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, respectively. Chris Columbus was hired to direct the film adaptation of Philosopher's Stone, with Steve Kloves selected to write the screenplay. Filming began on 29 September 2000 at Leavesden Film Studios and concluded on 23 March 2001, with final work being done in July. Principal photography took place on 2 October 2000 at North Yorkshire's Goathland railway station. Warner Bros. had initially planned to release the film over 4 July 2001 weekend, making for such a short production window that several proposed directors removed themselves from consideration. Because of time constraints, the date was put back, and Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was released in the United Kingdom and the United States on 16 November 2001.

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002)

Harry, Ron, and Hermione return to Hogwarts for their second year, but a mysterious chamber, hidden in the school, is opened leaving students and ghosts petrified by an unknown agent. They must solve the mystery of the chamber, and discover its entrance to find and defeat the true culprit.
Columbus and Kloves returned as director, and screenwriter for the film adaptation of Chamber of Secrets. Just three days after the wide release of the first film, production began on 19 November 2001 in Surrey, England, with filming continuing on location on the Isle of Man and at several other locations in Great Britain. Leavesden Film Studios in London made several scenes for Hogwarts. Principal photography concluded in the summer of 2002. The film spent until early October in post-production. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets premiered in the United Kingdom on 3 November 2002 before its wide release on 15 November, one year after the Philosopher's Stone.

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004)

A mysterious convict, Sirius Black, escapes from Azkaban and sets his sights on Hogwarts, where dementors are stationed to protect Harry and his peers. Harry learns more about his past and his connection with the escaped prisoner.
Columbus, the director of the two previous films, decided not to return to helm the third instalment, but remained as a producer alongside Heyman. Warner Bros. then drew up a three-name short list for Columbus' replacement, which comprised Callie Khouri, Kenneth Branagh (who played Gilderoy Lockhart in Chamber of Secrets) and the eventual director Alfonso Cuarón. Cuarón was initially nervous about accepting the job having not read any of the books, or seen the films, but later signed on after reading the series and  connecting immediately with the story. Michael Gambon replaced Richard Harris, who played Albus Dumbledore in the previous two films, after Harris's death in October 2002. Gambon was unconcerned with bettering or copying Harris, instead provided his own interpretation, including using a slight Irish accent for the role. He completed his scenes in three weeks. Gary Oldman was cast in the key role of Sirius Black in February 2003. Principal photography began on 24 February 2003, at Leavesden Film Studios, and concluded in October 2003. Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban premiered on 23 May 2004 in New York. It was released in the United Kingdom on 31 May, and in the United States on 4 June. It was the first film in the series to be released in both conventional and IMAX theatres.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005)

After the Quidditch World Cup, Harry arrives back at Hogwarts and finds himself entered in the Triwizard Tournament, a challenging competition involving completing three dangerous tasks. Harry is forced to compete with three other wizards chosen by the Goblet of Fire  –  Fleur Delacour, Viktor Krum, and Cedric Diggory.
In August 2003, British film director Mike Newell was chosen to direct the film after Prisoner of Azkaban director Alfonso Cuarón announced that he would not direct the sequel. Heyman returned to produce, and Kloves again wrote the screenplay. Principal photography began on 4 May 2004. Scenes involving the film's principal actors began shooting on 25 June 2004 at England's Leavesden Film Studios. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire premiered on 6 November 2005 in London, and was released in the United Kingdom and the United States on 18 November. Goblet of Fire was the first film in the series to receive a PG-13 rating by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) for "sequences of fantasy violence and frightening images," M by the Australian Classification Board (ACB), and a 12A by the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) for its dark themes, fantasy violence, threat and frightening images.

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2007)

Harry returns for his fifth year at Hogwarts and discovers that the Wizarding World is in denial of Voldemort's return. He takes matters into his own hands and starts a secret organisation to stand up against the regime of Hogwarts' "High Inquisitor" Dolores Umbridge, as well as to learn practical Defence Against the Dark Arts (D.A.D.A) for the forthcoming battle.
Daniel Radcliffe confirmed he would return as Harry Potter in May 2005, with Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Matthew Lewis (Neville Longbottom), and Bonnie Wright (Ginny Weasley) confirmed to return in November 2005. In February 2006, Helen McCrory was cast as Bellatrix Lestrange, but dropped out due to her pregnancy. In May 2006, Helena Bonham Carter was cast in her place. Ralph Fiennes reprises his role as Lord Voldemort. British television director David Yates was chosen to direct the film after Goblet of Fire director Newell, as well as Jean-Pierre Jeunet, Guillermo del Toro, Matthew Vaughn and Mira Nair, turned down offers. Kloves, the screenwriter of the first four Harry Potter films, had other commitments and Michael Goldenberg, who had been considered for screenwriter of the series' first film, filled in to write the script. Principal photography began on 7 February 2006, and concluded at the start of December 2006. Filming was put on a two-month hiatus starting in May 2006 so Radcliffe could sit his AS Levels and Watson could sit her GCSE exams. Live-action filming took place in England and Scotland for exterior locations and at Leavesden Film Studios for interior locations. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix had its world premiere on 28 June 2007 in Tokyo, Japan, and a UK premiere on 3 July 2007 at the Odeon Leicester Square in London. The film was released in the United Kingdom on 12 July, and the United States on 11 July.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (2009)

Voldemort and his Death Eaters are increasing their terror upon the Wizarding and Muggle worlds. Needing him for an important reason, Headmaster Dumbledore persuades his old friend Horace Slughorn to return to his prior post at Hogwarts. During Slughorn's Potions class, Harry takes possession of a strangely annotated school textbook, previously owned by the "Half-Blood Prince".
In July 2007, it was announced that Yates would return as director. Kloves returned to write the screenplay after skipping out of the fifth film, with Heyman and David Barron back as producers. Watson considered not returning for the film, but eventually signed on after Warner Bros. moved the production schedule to accommodate her exam dates. Principal photography began on 24 September 2007, and concluded on 17 May 2008. Though Radcliffe, Gambon and Jim Broadbent (Slughorn) started shooting in late September 2007, other cast members started much later: Watson did not begin until December 2007, Alan Rickman (Severus Snape) until January 2008, and Bonham Carter until February 2008. Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince had its world premiere on 6 July 2009 in Tokyo, Japan, and was released in the United Kingdom and the United States on 15 July.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 (2010)

Harry, Ron, and Hermione leave Hogwarts behind and set out to find and destroy Lord Voldemort's secret to immortality – the Horcruxes. The trio undergo a long journey with many obstacles in their path including Death Eaters, Snatchers, the mysterious Deathly Hallows, and Harry's connection with the Dark Lord's mind becoming ever stronger.

Originally scheduled for a single theatrical release, on 13 March 2008, Warner Bros. announced that the film adaptation of Deathly Hallows would be split into two parts to do justice to the book and out of respect for its fans. Yates, director of the previous two films, was confirmed to return as director, and Kloves was confirmed as screenwriter. For the first time in the series, Rowling was credited as a producer alongside Heyman and Barron, however Yates noted that her participation in the filmmaking process did not change from the previous films. Pre-production began on 26 January 2009, while principal photography began on 19 February at Leavesden Studios, where the previous six instalments were filmed. Pinewood Studios became the second studio location for shooting the seventh film.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2011)

Harry, Ron, and Hermione continue their search to find and destroy the remaining Horcruxes, as Harry prepares for the final battle against Voldemort.
The film was announced in March 2008 as Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2, the second of two cinematic parts. It was also revealed that Yates would direct the film and that Kloves would write the screenplay. Kloves started work on the second part's script in April 2009, after the first part's script was completed. Deathly Hallows – Part 2 was filmed back-to-back with Part 1 from 19 February 2009 to 12 June 2010. Reshoots for the epilogue scene, which had originally been filmed at London King's Cross station, took place at Leavesden Studios on 21 December 2010, marking the end of production of the Harry Potter film series.
The film had its world premiere on 7 July 2011 in Trafalgar Square in London, and a U.S. premiere on 11 July at Lincoln Center in New York City. Although filmed in 2D, the film was converted into 3D in post-production and was released in both RealD 3D and IMAX 3D, becoming the first and only film in the series to be released in this format. The film was released on 15 July in the United Kingdom and the United States.

Future
In July 2016, Warner Bros. Entertainment applied to purchase the rights to the stage play Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, leading to speculation that it was going to be adapted into film, despite earlier claims, most notably from Rowling, that a film adaptation was not being made.
In November 2021, Chris Columbus, who directed the first two Harry Potter films, expressed interest in directing a film adaptation of The Cursed Child, with the intent of having the main cast members reprise their roles. When The New York Times asked Daniel Radcliffe in 2022 if he would be ready to reprise his role as Harry Potter, he replied that he was not interested in it at the moment, but did not deny the possibility of returning sometime in the future.
In a Sunday Times interview in August 2025, Columbus confirmed that he maintains close relationships with the original cast but has not spoken to Rowling in "a decade or so". He went on to state that the controversy over Rowling's views on transgender people meant that a film adaptation of The Cursed Child with the original cast was "never going to happen". In a recent interview with Variety that same month, Columbus spoke of "separating the artist from the art" and described the controversy around Rowling as "just sad, it's very sad", while noting that he does not agree with her views.

Fantastic Beasts films

Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016)

In 1926, Newt Scamander arrives in New York City with his magically expanded briefcase which houses a number of dangerous creatures and their habitats. When some creatures escape from his briefcase, Newt must battle to correct the mistake, and the horrors of the resultant increase in violence, fear, and tension felt between magical and non-magical people (No-Maj).
On 12 September 2013, Warner Bros. announced that J. K. Rowling was writing a script based on her book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and the adventures of its fictional author Newt Scamander, set seventy years before the adventures of Harry Potter. The film would mark her screenwriting debut and is planned as the first movie in a new series. According to Rowling, after Warner Bros. suggested an adaptation, she wrote a rough draft of the script in twelve days. She said, "It wasn't a great draft but it did show the shape of how it might look. So that is how it all started." In March 2014, it was revealed that a trilogy was scheduled with the first instalment set in New York. The film sees the return of producer David Heyman, as well as writer Steve Kloves, both veterans of the Potter film series. In June 2015, Eddie Redmayne was cast in the lead role of Newt Scamander, the Wizarding World's preeminent magizoologist. Other cast members include: Katherine Waterston as Tina Goldstein, Alison Sudol as Queenie Goldstein, Dan Fogler as Jacob Kowalski, Ezra Miller as Credence Barebone, Samantha Morton as Mary Lou Barebone, Jenn Murray as Chastity Barebone, Faith Wood-Blagrove as Modesty Barebone, and Colin Farrell as Percival Graves. Principal photography began on 17 August 2015, at Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden. After two months, the production moved to St George's Hall in Liverpool, which was transformed into 1920s New York City. Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them was released worldwide on 18 November 2016.

Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018)

A few months after the events of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, Gellert Grindelwald has escaped imprisonment and begins gathering followers for his cause – elevating wizards above all non-magical beings. Dumbledore must seek help from his former student Newt to put a stop to Grindelwald.
The film was announced in March 2014 as the second instalment in the series. In October 2016, it was revealed that Yates and Rowling would return as director, and screenwriter and co-producer, and Redmayne would be returning to play the lead role of Newt Scamander in  all the series' films. In November 2016, it was confirmed that Johnny Depp would reprise his role as Gellert Grindelwald from the first instalment. Later that same month it was also announced that Albus Dumbledore would be appearing in  future instalments, albeit with a younger actor for the prequel film series. In April 2017, it was confirmed that Jude Law had been cast as Dumbledore. The film takes place in New York City, Britain, and Paris. Principal photography began on 3 July 2017, at Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden, and wrapped on 20 December 2017. Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald was released on 16 November 2018.

Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore (2022)

Several years after the events of The Crimes of Grindelwald, the story begins in the UK, the US and China and proceeds to take place partly in Berlin, Germany and partly in Bhutan, Asia and leads up to the Wizarding World's involvement in World War II. Newt continues his quest with Dumbledore to stop Grindelwald.
Originally scheduled to begin filming in July 2019, and released in November 2020, production was pushed back to late 2019 to allow more time polishing the script and plan the future of the series. In 2018 on Twitter, J. K. Rowling promised that the third film would give answers to the questions left unsolved in the first two. In October 2019, Dan Fogler claimed that principal photography on the third film would begin in February 2020. In November 2019, it was announced that the script had been written by both J. K. Rowling and Steve Kloves, the latter of whom returned after being absent as a writer on the first two. On 16 March 2020, the very day that principal photography would begin, the COVID-19 pandemic prompted Warner Bros. to postpone production of its third Fantastic Beasts film. This made the film to be postponed again, from a 12 November 2021 to a 15 July 2022 release. On 20 August 2020, filming was confirmed to start in September. On 20 September 2020, Eddie Redmayne confirmed that filming was two weeks underway with safety precautions in place to keep the cast and crew safe from COVID-19. Johnny Depp announced on 6 November 2020 that he left the film at the request of Warner Bros. Studios. This was the result of Depp losing a libel lawsuit in the UK. On 25 November 2020, Warner Bros. announced that Mads Mikkelsen would replace Depp in the role of Grindelwald. On 3 February 2021, filming in the UK was shut down after a production member tested positive for COVID-19. Composer James Newton Howard confirmed later that month that production had wrapped filming. In September 2021, the film's release was pushed forward three months to 15 April 2022, alongside the announcement of the full title. It premiered one week early in a few European and Asian countries.

Future
In October 2016, Rowling announced that the Fantastic Beasts film series would be composed of five films, later confirming that the story of the series would consist of a sequence of events that occurred between the years of 1926 and 1945. In February 2022, producer David Heyman revealed that work on the script for Fantastic Beasts 4 had not begun yet. In April 2022, Variety reported that Warner Bros. greenlighting the final two installments would be dependent on the critical and commercial performance of The Secrets of Dumbledore. In November 2022, it was reported that Warner Bros. Discovery was not actively planning to continue the film series or to develop any films related to the Wizarding World franchise.

Television

Harry Potter television series

In January 2021, it was reported that Warner Bros. were reviewing pitches for a television series, set in the wizarding world, to debut on HBO Max. In May 2022, the reports circulated about the announced meeting between Warner Bros. Discovery CEO David Zaslav and J. K. Rowling in their discussion for future HBO Max projects set within the wizarding world.
On 12 April 2023, Warner Bros. Discovery announced a new live-action Harry Potter television series at a press event for its newly rebranded streaming service Max. It will be a reboot of the franchise, retelling the story of the novels with a season dedicated to each of the seven books, and will be produced over the course of ten years. J. K. Rowling will be joining the production as an executive producer, with the author stating that she is "looking forward to being part of this new adaptation which will allow for a degree of depth and detail only afforded by a long form television series". The show is expected to release in 2026. On 25 June 2024, it was announced that the series has been moved from Max to HBO.
On 26 June 2024, Francesca Gardiner was announced as the series' showrunner, Mark Mylod was announced as director and an executive producer, and David Heyman, who produced the original film series, was announced as an executive producer. On 14 April 2025, the first adult cast members were officially announced, including John Lithgow as Albus Dumbledore, Paapa Essiedu as Severus Snape, Nick Frost as Rubeus Hagrid and Janet McTeer as Minerva McGonagall . Lithgow acknowledged there would be controversy over him playing the role as an American, when the original film series only cast British or Irish cast members at Rowling's request, and that he would work with a dialect coach in addition to first reading the books after he was cast. He said: "I don't know the Harry Potter canon by heart as 98% of the world's population seems to," but said that in talks with the producers he was intrigued by how "as the kids grew older [in the books], you learn more and more about Dumbledore, and he became a much more surprising, complicated character." On 27 May, the cast for the main trio was announced: Dominic McLaughlin as Harry Potter, Arabella Stanton as Hermione Granger, and Alastair Stout as Ron Weasley. Production began in July 2025, when a first official image of McLaughlin in costume was released. In his first public comments to the BBC, McLaughlin called it a "dream role" as fan of the books. Stanton was also announced as the voice of the younger Hermione in a new audio book series, and said in an official clip from Audible that she had similarities with her character. In August 2025, Warner Brothers announced the casting of Tristan and Gabriel Harland as Fred and George Weasley, Ruari Spooner as Percy Weasley, and Gracie Cochrane as Ginny Weasley. Cochrane had earlier said that the original Goblet of Fire film was a favourite of hers, in addition to being a fan of the books. It was announced as part of "Back to Hogwarts" day on 1 September 2025 that Warwick Davis would reprise his role as Professor Flitwick, in addition to other casting announcements. Both Daniel Radcliffe and Rupert Grint said they had written letters to the young actors playing their characters.

Official television shows and special

TBS and Cartoon Network aired Harry Potter: Hogwarts Tournament of Houses on 28 November 2021 as part of the 20th anniversary celebrations. It was a bracket style quiz show where fans would compete for their Hogwarts house in teams of three. It featured four episodes and was hosted by Helen Mirren and included Harry Potter cast members: Tom Felton, Simon Fisher-Becker, Shirley Henderson, Luke Youngblood, Matthew Lewis, along with other cameos like Pete Davidson and comedian Jay Leno.
Many members of the original cast reunited for Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts, an HBO Max retrospective special to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the first film, which was released on 1 January 2022.
A cooking show, Harry Potter: Wizards of Baking, premiered on 14 November 2024. It is hosted by Harry Potter cast members James and Oliver Phelps.

Recurring cast and characters

Music

Reception

Box office performance
As of 2022, the first 11 Wizarding World films have collectively grossed over $9.6 billion at the global box office, making it the fourth-highest-grossing film franchise of all time behind the Marvel Cinematic Universe films, the Star Wars films and the Spider-Man films. The first ten films emerged as commercial successes at the box office with the majority of the films grossing over  $790 million, and all but The Prisoner of Azkaban and Fantastic Beasts at some point ranked among the ten highest-grossing films of all time. The Harry Potter films are the highest-grossing series based on a single property, earning over $7.7 billion at the box office; Harry Potter has also generated at least $3.9 billion in home video revenue, taking total consumer spending on the films to over $11 billion. Harry Potter also has a series average of over $1 billion per film when adjusted for inflation.
The Deathly Hallows – Part 2 grossed over $1.3 billion becoming the third-highest-grossing film of all time, the highest-grossing film in the Wizarding World franchise, and the highest-grossing film of 2011. In the United States and Canada, it set a single-day and opening-weekend record, with $91.1 million and $169.2 million. In addition, the film set a worldwide opening-weekend record with $483.2 million. The Philosopher's Stone and The Goblet of Fire were also the highest-grossing films of 2001 and 2005; while The Chamber of Secrets, The Prisoner of Azkaban, The Order of the Phoenix, and The Half-Blood Prince were the second highest-grossing films of 2002, 2004, 2007, and 2009. The Deathly Hallows – Part 1 was the third-highest-grossing film of 2010, (behind Toy Story 3 and Alice in Wonderland), Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them was the eighth highest-grossing film of 2016, and The Crimes of Grindelwald was the tenth highest-grossing film of 2018.  The Secrets of Dumbledore was the first film in the franchise to place outside the top ten grossing films of its release year.

Critical and public response
All of the films have been commercially successful, and the majority have been critically successful. The Harry Potter series is noted by audiences and critics for growing narratively complicated, visually darker and more mature as each film was released.

Accolades

Academy Awards
Seven of the 11 films were nominated for a total of 14 Academy Awards. Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them won for Best Costume Design in 2017, becoming the first film in the Wizarding World to win an Academy Award. Before the win in 2017, the franchise was the most-snubbed, top-grossing franchise of all time at the Academy Awards, with 12 nominations and zero wins.

British Academy Film Awards
The franchise has earned a total of 34 nominations at the British Academy Film Awards presented at the annual BAFTAs, winning three. At the 64th British Academy Film Awards in February 2011, Rowling, producers Heyman and Barron, along with directors Yates, Newell and Cuarón collected the Michael Balcon Award for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema in honour of the Harry Potter film series. The Harry Potter series was also recognised by the BAFTA Los Angeles Britannia Awards, with Yates winning the Britannia Award for Artistic Excellence in Directing for his four Harry Potter films.

Emmy Awards
Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts received a nomination for Outstanding Variety Special (Pre-Recorded) at the 74th Primetime Emmy Awards as well as a nomination for Outstanding Picture Editing for Variety Programming at the 74th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards. At the 1st Children's and Family Emmy Awards, Harry Potter: Hogwarts Tournament of Houses won the award for Outstanding Lighting Design for a Live Action Program and Helen Mirren won the award for Outstanding Host for hosting the series.

Grammy Awards
The franchise has received a total of eight Grammy Award nominations; seven for films in the Harry Potter series with various composers nominated (John Williams, Nicholas Hooper, Alexandre Desplat) and one for the musical Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, composed by Imogen Heap.

Laurence Olivier Awards
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child garnered eleven Laurence Olivier Awards nominations at the 2017 ceremony, tying the record set in 2008 by Hairspray, and won a record-breaking nine: Best New Play, Best Director, Best Actor (Jamie Parker), Best Actress in a Supporting Role (Noma Dumezweni), Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Anthony Boyle), Best Costume Design, Best Set Design, Best Sound Design, and Best Lighting Design. The London production was also nominated for Best Theatre Choreographer and Outstanding Achievement in Music.

Tony Awards
Harry Potter and the Cursed Child received ten nominations at the 72nd Tony Awards, winning six awards: Best Play, Best Scenic Design in a Play, Best Costume Design in a Play, Best Lighting Design in a Play, Best Sound Design of a Play, and Best Direction of a Play. The play was also nominated for Best Performance by a Leading Actor in a Play (Parker), Best Performance by a Featured Actor in a Play (Boyle), Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play (Dumezweni), and Best Choreography.

Other media

Stage play

In December 2013, J. K. Rowling announced that she was working on a Harry Potter–based play, and in June 2015 it was officially titled Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. The two-part, West End stage play, written by British playwright Jack Thorne, is based on an original story by Thorne, John Tiffany and Rowling. It is directed by Tiffany with choreography by Steven Hoggett, set design by Christine Jones, costume design by Katrina Lindsay, lighting design by Neil Austin, music by Imogen Heap, and sound design by Gareth Fry. The story begins nineteen years after the events of Deathly Hallows and follows Harry Potter, now a Ministry of Magic employee, and his younger son Albus Severus Potter, who is about to attend Hogwarts. On 20 December 2015, it was announced that Jamie Parker, Noma Dumezweni and Paul Thornley would play Harry Potter, Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley respectively. The play debuted at the Palace Theatre, London on 7 June 2016 in previews, with the official opening on 30 July. The script was released in book form the day after the play's world premiere. The play opened on Broadway at the redesigned Lyric Theatre, New York City on 22 April 2018. Parker, Dumezweni, and Thornley reprised their roles on Broadway with Poppy Miller, Sam Clemmett, Alex Price, and Anthony Boyle also reprising their roles as Ginny Potter, Albus Potter, Draco Malfoy, and Scorpius Malfoy, respectively. Tom Felton was set to reprise his film role Draco Malfoy in the Broadway production for several months beginning in November 2025. Rupert Grint is set to reprise his film role as Ron Weasley in the Broadway production from February 2027.

Digital publication

In June 2011, Rowling launched a website announcing an upcoming project called Pottermore, where all future Harry Potter projects, and all electronic downloads, would be concentrated. Pottermore opened to the general public on 14 April 2012. Pottermore allows users to be sorted, be chosen by their wand and play various minigames. The main purpose of the website was to allow the user to journey through the story with access to content not revealed by J. K. Rowling previously, with over 18,000 words of information on characters, places and objects in the Harry Potter universe. In September 2015, the website launched a newly designed site containing news, features and articles plus previously unreleased writing by Rowling and removed some features including the interactive Moment illustrations, House Cup and Sorting ceremony. A newly designed Sorting Ceremony was subsequently launched on 28 January 2016 in which users could reclaim their old house or be re-sorted. The site was rebranded as WizardingWorld.com in 2019 and then as HarryPotter.com in 2024.
In spring 2024, Pottermore Publishing and Audible announced a new upcoming full-cast audio book series that would feature over 100 voice actors to be released in late 2025. The first cast members were announced in August 2025, including Hugh Laurie, Matthew Macfadyen, Riz Ahmed and Arabella Stanton, the latter of whom is also playing Hermione in the new TV series.

Theme parks

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter are a group of themed areas at Universal Destinations & Experiences based on the Harry Potter media franchise, adapting elements from the film series and original novels by Rowling. The areas were designed by Universal Creative under an exclusive licence with Warner Bros. Entertainment. It opened on 18 June 2010 as an expansion to the Universal Islands of Adventure theme park at Universal Orlando Resort in Orlando, Florida, and on 8 July 2014 at the Universal Studios Florida theme park. In January 2024, Universal Orlando Resort announced another expansion titled The Wizarding World of Harry Potter – Ministry of Magic, which opened on 22 May 2025 at the Universal Epic Universe theme park. The area blends the British Ministry of Magic with the 1920s wizarding Paris from the Fantastic Beasts film series.
On 15 July 2014, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened at the Universal Studios Japan theme park in Osaka, Japan. It includes the village of Hogsmeade, the Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey ride, and the Flight of the Hippogriff roller coaster. On 7 April 2016, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened at the Universal Studios Hollywood theme park near Los Angeles, California. On 20 September 2021, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter opened at the Universal Studios Beijing theme park in Beijing, China.

Exhibitions and Events

Warner Bros. Studio Tours – The Making of Harry Potter

The Warner Bros. Studio Tour London – The Making of Harry Potter opened on 31 March 2012 in Leavesden, southeast England with a grand opening that featured many of the Harry Potter cast and crew. It houses a permanent exhibit of authentic costumes, props and sets utilized in the production of the Harry Potter films, as well as behind-the-scenes production of visual effects. Each tour session typically lasts three and a half hours, and the tour has the capacity to handle 6,000 visitors daily. TripAdvisor reported that it has been the highest-rated attraction worldwide every year since the tour opened. Announced in August 2020, Warner Bros. Studio Tour Tokyo – The Making of Harry Potter is an attraction in Tokyo, Japan, that opened in the first half of 2023.  Similar to its counterpart in London, the 30,000 square-meter attraction in Tokyo offers visitors a walking tour through some of the recreated famous film sets including the Great Hall, the Forbidden Forest, and the Diagon Alley.

Harry Potter Shops
The Harry Potter Shop at Platform 9 3/4 opened on 14 December 2012 and is located in King's Cross Station, London and next to it there is an opportunity to take a photo at the trolley. The Harry Potter Store New York opened on 3 June 2021 and consists of 3 floors with an area over 20,000 square feet. It includes unique VR experiences. The Harry Potter Shop in Gatwick Airport, England is located in its North Terminal and the store covers 614 square feet. It opened to the public on 22 November 2018. The Harry Potter Shop in Heathrow Airport, England is located on Terminal 5, Level 3 and covers 1000 square feet. It opened on 16 November and covered 600 square feet and then expanded to cover 1000 square feet and re-opened on 9 August 2018.
There are also unofficial stores based on the Wizarding World and J. K. Rowling including: Emporio Stregato in Rimini, Italy.
Back to Hogwarts
On 1 September 2017, identified by Rowling as the date the events at Kings Cross in the epilogue of the seventh book and the beginning of the stage play take place, the official Harry Potter website promoted activities using the hashtag #BacktoHogwarts, including a livestream of Kings Cross, where actor Warwick Davis made an in-person appearance with fans. The date had been popularized on social media starting in 2015 with posts by Rowling about Harry's son James starting at Hogwarts. In the following years on the day, Warner Brothers continued to organize in person and virtual events at Kings Cross and around the world with appearances by actors such as Tom Felton and Eddie Redmayne and made announcements about products and experiences related to the franchise. Variety reported in 2023 that "Back to Hogwarts Day has morphed into a global phenomenon, with Warner Bros. Discovery now taking charge of proceedings" and cited a Warner Brothers representative in noting that Kings Cross Station had to close its doors at 11 a.m. due to the large number of fans. On the date in 2024, fans showed up at King's Cross Station even though no event was held and fans were discouraged from attending, reportedly due to the crowding issues the year before, and booed when no Hogwarts Express announcement was made at 11 a.m. as in previous years. The organizers had encouraged fans to participate in virtual events, while in-person events were held at other locations like Grand Central Terminal in New York City and Hamburg, Germany, after promoting in-person attendance at Kings Cross in previous years.

Harry Potter: The Exhibition

Harry Potter: The Exhibition is a travelling exhibition ran by GES that originally opened in April 2009 at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago, United States. It travelled across 14 countries with its last stop being in Lisbon, Portugal until March 2020 when it closed early due to COVID-19. It was announced early 2021 that the exhibition would be rebooted and ran by Imagine Exhibitions and was set to open in 2022. It is currently open at the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia. It opened at Paris Expo Porte de Versailles, Paris in Spring 2023, and it opened in December 2023 in Macao.

Harry Potter Photographic Exhibition
The Harry Potter Photographic Exhibition opened on 12 July 2021 in Covent Garden, London. It includes a display of behind-the-scenes images and features London's only Butterbeer Bar. It closed on 15 December 2022, a year after its opening.

History of Magic Exhibition
The History of Magic was an exhibition which was at the British Library from 20 October 2017 to 28 February 2018 as part of 20th anniversary celebrations. The British Library also installed smaller displays on the same topic in 22 libraries across the United Kingdom. The exhibition was a collaboration between the British Library, Bloomsbury, and author J. K. Rowling. There was also a similar exhibition in New York City which opened on 5 October 2018 to 27 January 2019. While some of the same artefacts from the British Library were displayed, additional materials dealing with real-word magic in the Americas were shown. On 27 February 2018, as the British Library was preparing to close the original exhibition, Google made the exhibition available online world-wide using their Google Arts & Culture platform.

Fantastic Beasts: The Wonder of Nature Exhibition
Fantastic Beasts: The Wonder of Nature was open from 9–15 December 2020 and from 17 May 2021 to 3 January 2022 at the London Natural History Museum. It consisted of creatures, specimens and artefacts from the museum's scientific collection displayed side by side with elements from the Wizarding World as well as digital installations. This exhibit featured 100 objects, including props from the Fantastic Beasts and Harry Potter films. There is a similar exhibition that opened at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto, Canada on 11 June 2022 through 2 January 2023. The exhibition is also set to open at Melbourne museum on 19 May 2023 through 8 October 2023.

Harry Potter Film Concert Series
The Harry Potter Film Concert Series is a global concert tour announced in 2016 as a partnership between WarnerBros and CineConcert. The concerts involve a screening of the film alongside the film's complete score played live by local orchestras. It premiered at Philadelphia's Mann Center for the Performing Arts on 23 June 2016. There have since been over 1,400 performances in 48 countries around the world with over three million fans.

Forbidden Forest Experience
The Forbidden Forest Experience is a nighttime woodland trail with creatures and other experiences from the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts films. Some of the experiences include casting spells using a wand and eating food and drinks from the Harry Potter world at the themed village. It is currently running in Shenzhen, China. The experience was held previously in twelve other locations: Vancouver in Canada, Austin, Chicago, Cincinnati, Leesburg, Little Elm, Westchester in the US; Melbourne and Brisbane in Australia; Montauban in France; Brussels in Belgium; Cheshire in the UK; and Singapore.

Harry Potter Land, Warner Bros World Abu Dhabi
An extensive new Harry Potter themed land was announced to be coming to Yas Island, as part of the world's largest indoor theme park, Warner Bros. World Abu Dhabi on 10 November 2022 by Warner Bros Discovery and Miral.

Books

Video games


================================================================================

# Wizarding World Digital

Harry Potter Digital (formerly known as Wizarding World Digital) is a digital publishing, e-commerce, entertainment and news company, now trading as HarryPotter.com. It offers news, features, and articles as well as new and previously unreleased writing by J. K. Rowling regarding the Wizarding World. The site features Rowling's thoughts, and a sales resource for e-book and audiobook versions of the seven Harry Potter novels through Pottermore Publishing.
On 31 July 2011, registration for the limited beta of a website named Pottermore began. The limited release allowed the first million fans registered to complete The Magical Quill challenge. The original registration was intended to be October 2011, but was delayed until 14 April 2012. Pottermore was originally launched in partnership with Sony, but in April 2014, it was announced that Pottermore had concluded its relationship with Sony and entered its next developmental phase both creatively and commercially. On 22 September 2015, Pottermore launched a newly designed site containing news, features, and articles plus previously unreleased writing by J.K. Rowling and removed some features including the interactive Moment illustrations, House Cup, and Sorting ceremony. A newly designed Sorting Ceremony was subsequently launched in January 2016 in which users could reclaim their old house or be re-sorted.
The Pottermore website was rebranded first as WizardingWorld.com in 2019 and then as HarryPotter.com in 2024, to which a large part of the content has been migrated.

Development
Pottermore was incorporated in April 2008 and was in a developmental stage for two years. The Leaky Cauldron's webmaster, Melissa Anelli, has been involved with the project since October 2009. On 15 June 2011, various Harry Potter fansites began releasing coordinates that led to letters on SecretStreetView.com. This website, created by Rowling, used Google Maps to reveal hidden letters that spelled out the title of her secret announcement. The first web page to announce the project appeared in June 2011. The webpage linked to a YouTube channel that featured a countdown. Pixelated owls gathered on multiple Harry Potter websites that linked to this countdown page. Rowling also revealed some details about the new site in a YouTube video on 23 June 2011.

Early registration: The Magical Quill Challenge
When the website was launched on 31 July 2011, an overwhelming number of people tried to access it. Those who could get into Pottermore were informed of The Magical Quill Challenge. Users that completed the challenge could compete for the early registration for the site. The challenge spanned across seven days, with each day corresponding to a certain book in the series. Each day had a new clue, which had to be solved by the user in order to enable their right to register before October. The website picked a user's name randomly. Only a certain number of people each day were allowed to use the Magic Quill clue for registration, but this quickly added up to a total of one million users at the end of the challenge (6 August 2011). While many accounts were created by fans during the early registration phase, many other users created multiple accounts and sold them for high prices on eBay. This was done despite the warning given by the Pottermore blog, and the fact that users were assured that the website would remain a free site. Some of these accounts were created by cyber criminals hoping to target as many Harry Potter fans as possible. These criminals posted promises of early previews and access to the site, which led people to unintentionally buy a malicious software and allowed hackers to gain access to their accounts. Clues on the first three days were more difficult than the clues on days four through seven. For North Americans, the final clue was released on 5 August 2011 instead of 6 August 2011. The following table is an overview of the Magical Quill Challenge.

Beta release

On 10 August 2011, Pottermore sent a congratulatory email to registered users that confirmed early entry. This signified that the beta period began once the sign-in button reappeared on the website. On 15 August 2011, the sign-in button reappeared, welcome emails were sent out, and the beta period began. A very small number of users were invited to begin their use of Pottermore on the first day. More users were invited until 27 September, that marked when the final invitation emails were sent. Early users also said that even though the site did not bring back the same feelings of excitement from when the books were released, it did add an extra layer to the reading experience.

Public launch
Pottermore was originally scheduled to become publicly available at the end of October 2011, but the beta period was extended. The Pottermore Shop (which sells Harry Potter eBooks and digital audio books) became available on 27 March 2012. On 8 March 2012, it was reported that Pottermore would open to the public in early April 2012. The website officially opened on 14 April 2012, but at that time, the interactive experience was only available for Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.

Features of Pottermore (2011–2015)

Exploring the books
Pottermore visitors could participate in interactive reading. They would create an account and be given a unique username. They began with Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and go through the chapters, following Harry and his friends through several Hogwarts journeys. They could collect things like potion ingredients, books, Chocolate Frog cards, galleons, candy, and more along the way. These various finds would earn users points for their house, after they are sorted by the Sorting Hat. The Sorting Hat would place them in one of the four different houses at Hogwarts. The user was given a special quiz to determine in which house they belong. The four different houses in the Harry Potter universe are Hufflepuff, Gryffindor, Slytherin, and Ravenclaw. Users could visit Diagon Alley, where they could purchase different wizarding supplies for school. They could learn spells, duel with other users, and brew several different potions. Students from different Houses could compete with each other for the House Cup by earning House points through dueling, potion making and collecting objects for the first time.

Philosopher's Stone
The entire first book was available on launch.

Chamber of Secrets
On 15 July 2012, the first four chapters of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets were released to only Slytherin House, as their reward for winning the first house cup; it was released to the other Houses on 16 July. On 18 September, chapters five through eleven were released. Accompanying these releases were many new features. These features included badges, the ability for users to see their own all-time House points as well as the number earned since the last House Cup, second-year schoolbooks, more galleons to spend in Diagon Alley, and a status field for user profiles. The final instalment of chapters, including chapters twelve through eighteen, were launched on 31 October 2012.

Prisoner of Azkaban
The first seven chapters of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban were released on 20 December 2012. Chapters eight through fifteen were later released on 10 April 2013. Chapters sixteen through twenty-two were released 31 July 2013, along with a new layout of Pottermore that included a new gateway, a separate way of going through Harry's story and the user's, and three more moments added to Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.

Goblet of Fire
The first 11 chapters of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire were released on the site in October 2013. In these chapters, users could do things from the book, such as see The Dark Mark, watch the Quidditch World Cup, and find a Chudley Cannons badge in Ron Weasley's room. Chapters 12 through 20 were released on 16 January 2014. The final chapters, Chapter 21 through 37, were released to Ravenclaw members on 30 July 2014, and then to the public on 31 July 2014. Chapters 2, 22, 29, and 33 of Goblet of Fire have no interactive moments to explore, however, their descriptions are still available to read when each chapter is clicked.
Between April and July 2014, while Chapters 21 through 37 of Goblet of Fire were in development, the site periodically released "articles" from the franchise's fictional newspaper The Daily Prophet, pertaining to 2014 Quidditch World Cup. Written in-universe by the character Ginny Weasley (by then married to Harry), the articles detailed the various matches of the sporting event between sixteen countries such as Bulgaria, the United States, Japan, and Brazil. A further article, written in-universe by reporter Rita Skeeter and released on 8 July 2014, had detailed various, never-before-seen tidbits on the lives of the story's protagonists.

Order of the Phoenix
On 17 October 2014, the Pottermore Insider introduced a Trick or Treat event that posted a new Trick or Treat daily. On even days, there would be a Trick and on odd days, a Treat. Treats consisted of a piece of artwork or sneak peek to be released in the new update on Halloween. Tricks consisted of a puzzle or game that needed to be solved to provide hints of things included in the new update. On 31 October, Pottermore released the Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix chapters to the online experience. In the fifth book, users could read new content from J.K. Rowling, such as Professor Umbridge's backstory, the mystery of Thestrals, and even the history of the Ministry of Magic.

Half-Blood Prince
On 5 December 2014, Pottermore gave users early access to Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince only if they answered a series of riddles correctly. There, the visitor could find more information about Inferi, Florean Fortescue's forgotten plot to help Harry, the Order of Merlin, Draco Malfoy's secrets, and more.

Deathly Hallows
On 23 June 2015, Pottermore gave users access to Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the final book.

Brewing potions
Pottermore users could make their own potions by using three different (on-screen) cauldrons that were "made" of either pewter, brass, or copper. Each cauldron could make potions at different speeds. Pewter was the slowest cauldron and copper was the fastest cauldron. Pewter cauldrons would cost fifteen galleons, brass cauldrons 21 galleons, and copper cauldrons 25 galleons. Users could make nine different potions with ingredients that could be bought in Diagon Alley, or found while exploring the chapters. If completed successfully, each potion earns them House points. However, a potion could fail if the wrong amount of an ingredient was added. It could also ruin the cauldrons. This could happen if a user left it to brew for too long, did not keep the temperature within the correct range, stirred the potion the wrong way, or crushed ingredients too finely (or not finely enough). When this happened, the player might have up to five house points deducted.
There were three lists of potions: Magical Drafts and Potions, Moste Potente Potions, and Book of Potions. Between these lists a combined total of 15 potions were available.

Spells
Users could practice spells and later use them against other members of Pottermore in the wizard's duels. There were four spellbooks and they were The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1), The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 2), The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection and Curses and Counter-Curses. Each spell has a different effect on the victim.
There were a total of 33 spells that are available to users.

House points and House Cup
Members of Pottermore win and lose House points as they duel, brew potions, and explore the books. These points were then added and subtracted from that member's House (Slytherin, Ravenclaw, Gryffindor, or Hufflepuff) point total. The members of each House work together to gain more points than any of the other Houses. Every so often, a House Cup was awarded to the House with the most points, after which the points were reset. The first House Cup was awarded on 5 July 2012 to Slytherin, who also received early access to the first four chapters of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. The second House Cup was awarded to Gryffindor on 21 November 2012, whose members received screen-savers and desktop backgrounds for electronic devices. The third House Cup was awarded once again to Slytherin on 25 April 2013. As a reward, Slytherins gained early access to a Montrose Magpies badge. The fourth House Cup was awarded to Hufflepuff on 12 September 2013. As a reward, all members of the Hufflepuff house gained early access to Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. The fifth was awarded to Ravenclaw on 30 March 2014. The reward was announced on 4 April 2014, as being members of Ravenclaw house, users will enjoy early access to the final instalment of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, as well as commemorative desktop wallpapers. On 26 September 2014, Ravenclaw retained their House Cup with Gryffindor being a close second. The House Cup was next awarded on 22 May 2015, and was won by Slytherin. The final House cup was awarded on 9 September 2015 and won by Hufflepuff house.

Comments
On 13 April 2015, Pottermore announced a deactivation of their comment boards in various sections of the site.

Artwork
A UK art studio, Atomhawk Design, created drawings of key scenes from the books in two and three-dimensional styles.

Redesigned Pottermore (2015–2019)
On 22 September 2015, Pottermore launched a newly designed site containing news, features and articles plus previously unreleased writing by J.K. Rowling and removed some of its most prominent features including the interactive Moment illustrations, House Cup, and Sorting Ceremony. A newly designed Sorting Ceremony was subsequently launched on 28 January 2016 in which users could reclaim their old house or be re-sorted.
Pottermore continued to add new features to the site with a focus on expanding the wizarding world via interactive features and new J.K. Rowling writing. Since the site's relaunch Pottermore revealed the origins of the Potter family, locations and information regarding wizarding schools around the world and "History of Magic in North America".
The representation of Native American beliefs, however, remained controversial and was not well received by scholars and Native Americans' rights activists. History of Magic in North America includes Rowling's fictionalized versions and inventions of "Native American Magic." Her use of Native American religious figures and symbolism from contemporary, living cultures for this work of fiction has been met with protests by Native American communities. When the work debuted in October 2016, she was accused of racial insensitivity, violation of intellectual property rights, disrespect and appropriating "Native traditions while erasing Native peoples." While usually friendly and actively engaged with her fanbase on social media, after one brief exchange, Rowling went silent in the face of these criticisms, and refused to answer any questions or criticism from Native American fans or media.

Move to WizardingWorld.com (2019–2024)
A new website, WizardingWorld.com, opened in 2019. It eventually took over Pottermore, hosting much of the news and original writing content previously available on the Pottermore website. Pottermore now redirects to the Wizarding World website.
In spring 2024, Pottermore Publishing and Audible announced a new upcoming full-cast audio book series that would feature over 100 voice actors to be released in late 2025.

Rebranding to HarryPotter.com (2024–present)
In autumn 2024, the website was rebranded as "HarryPotter.com".
