I am a sick man.... I am a spiteful man. I am an unattractive man. I believe my liver is diseased.
However, I know nothing at all about my disease, and do not know for certain what ails me. I don't consult a doctor for it,
and never have, though I have a respect for medicine and doctors. Besides, I am extremely superstitious, sufficiently so to respect medicine, anyway.
No, I refuse to consult a doctor from spite. That you probably will not understand. Well, I understand it, though.
Of course, I can't explain who it is precisely that I am mortifying in this case by my spite: I am perfectly well aware that I cannot hurt the doctors by not consulting them;
I know better than anyone that by all this I am only hurting myself and no one else.
Still, if I don't consult a doctor it is from spite. My liver is bad, well then let it get even worse!

I have been living like this for a long time twenty years. Now I am forty. I used to be in the civil service, but no longer am.
I was a spiteful official. I was rude and took pleasure in being so. I did not take bribes, you see, so I was bound to find a recompense in that, at least.
When petitioners used to come for information to the table at which I sat, I used to grind my teeth at them, and felt intense enjoyment when I succeeded in making anyone unhappy.
I almost always succeeded. For the most part they were all timid people of course, they were petitioners.
But of the uppish persons there was one officer in particular I could not endure. He simply would not be humble, and clanked his sword in a disgusting way.
I carried on a feud with him for eighteen months over that sword. At last I got the better of him. He left off clanking it. That happened in my youth, though.

An intelligent man cannot become anything seriously, and it is only the fool who becomes anything.
Yes, a man in the nineteenth century must and morally ought to be pre-eminently a characterless creature;
a man of character, an active man is pre-eminently a limited creature.
That is my conviction of forty years. I am forty years old now, and you know forty years is a whole lifetime;
you know it is extreme old age. To live longer than forty years is bad manners, is vulgar, immoral.
Who does live beyond forty? Answer that, sincerely and honestly! I will tell you who do: fools and worthless fellows.
I tell all old men that to their faces, all these venerable old men, all these silver-haired and reverend seniors!
I tell the whole world so to its face! I have a right to say so, for I shall go on living to sixty myself! To seventy! To eighty! Hold on, let me catch my breath.

It is better to do nothing! Better conscious inertia! And so hurrah for underground!
Though I have said that I envy the normal man to the last drop of my bile, yet I should not care to be in his place such as he is now.
Though why am I lying! I am lying because I know myself that it is not underground that is better, but something different, quite different,
for which I am thirsting, but which I cannot find! Damn underground!

Reason only satisfies the reasoning side of man's nature, but will is a manifestation of the whole of life,
that is, of the whole human life including reason and all the impulses. And although our life, in this manifestation of it,
is often worthless, yet it is life and not simply extracting square roots.
Here I, for instance, quite naturally want to live, in order to satisfy all my capacities for life, and not simply my reasoning capacity.
What does reason know? Reason only knows what it has succeeded in learning, and human nature acts as a whole,
with everything that is in it, consciously or unconsciously, and, even if it goes wrong, it lives.

Gentlemen, there are cases when man purposefully wishes for himself what is harmful and stupid, simply to have the right of wishing for himself even what is absurd,
and not being bound to desire only what is sensible.
Man likes to make roads and to create, that is undeniable. But why has he also such a passionate love for destruction and chaos?
Shall I tell you why? Because he is instinctively afraid of attaining his goal and completing the edifice he is constructing.
How do you know that he does not only love that edifice from a distance, and is by no means in love with it at close quarters?
Perhaps the only goal on earth to which mankind is striving consists in this uninterrupted process of attaining,
or in other words, in life itself, and not in the thing to be attained.

Two times two makes four seems to me simply a piece of insolence. Two times two makes four is a pert fellow who stands with arms akimbo barring your path and spitting.
I admit that two times two makes four is an excellent thing, but if we are to give everything its due, two times two makes five is sometimes a very charming thing too.
And why are you so firmly, so triumphantly, convinced that only the normal and the positive in other words, only what is conducive to welfare is for the advantage of man?
Is not reason in error as regards advantage? Does not man, perhaps, love something besides well-being?
Perhaps he is just as fond of suffering? Perhaps suffering is just as great an advantage to him as well-being?
Man is sometimes extraordinarily, passionately fond of suffering, and that is a fact.
Suffering is the sole origin of consciousness. Though I did lay down at the beginning that consciousness is the greatest misfortune for man, yet I know man prizes it and would not give it up for any satisfaction.

I want now to tell you, gentlemen, whether you care to hear it or not, why I could not even become an insect.
I tell you solemnly, that I have many times tried to become an insect. But I was not even worthy of that.
I swear, gentlemen, that to be too conscious is an illness a real thorough-going illness.
For man's everyday needs it would have been quite enough to have the ordinary human consciousness, that is, half or a quarter of the amount which falls to the lot of a cultivated man of our unhappy nineteenth century, especially one who has the fatal ill-luck to inhabit Petersburg, the most theoretical and intentional town on the whole terrestrial globe.
It would have been quite enough, for instance, to have the consciousness of an average direct man and man of action.
I bet you think that I am writing all this from vanity, to be funny at the expense of men of action, and, furthermore, that out of sheer bad taste I am clanking my sword like my officer.